PART word/document.xml

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.  (Annotate the CFR parts/sections affected).

Under the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) (Pub. L. 107-71 (115 Stat. 597-598, Nov. 19, 2001), TSA is responsible for security in all modes of transportation, including screening operations for passenger air transportation and for carrying out such other duties it considers appropriate relating to the transportation security.  See sec. 101(a) of ATSA, codified at 49 U.S.C. 114.  Under ATSA, TSA established the Travel Protocol Office (TPO) program to assist foreign dignitaries, accredited Ambassadors to the United States, and other travelers requiring an escort through the airport security screening process. The Helping Heroes Fly Act directs TSA to develop and implement a process to support and facilitate the ease of travel and, to the extent possible, provide expedited passenger screening services for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans through passenger screening.  See sec. 2 of the Helping Heroes Fly Act, Pub. L. 113–27 (127 Stat. 503, Aug. 9, 2013), as amended and codified at 49 U.S.C. 44927.  Consistent with these requirements, TSA established the Military Severely Injured Joint Support Operations Center (MSIJSOC) program to support and facilitate the movement of wounded warriors, severely injured military personnel, and severely injured or disabled veterans.  The MSIJSOC and TPO programs are available at commercial airports within the continental United States and its territories.

In order to implement this program, the MSIJSOC and TPO offices must collect the passenger’s name, flight itinerary (scheduled flight departure and arrival information), and contact information to successfully facilitate movements through the screening process at U.S. airports and its territories.  TSA shares this information with airports on the passenger’s itinerary to coordinate efforts to synchronize seamless transitions with the affected parties and guarantee security operations are not adversely impacted.

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

The MSIJSOC program works with passengers who are wounded warriors, severely injured military members, and severely injured or disabled veterans.  Once flight arrangements are made with the airlines, the traveler, their family, or other representative may contact the TSA Cares Hotline no later than 72 hours prior to their scheduled flight time with the details of the itinerary.  TSA will collect the traveler’s name, travel itinerary (scheduled flight departure and arrival information), and a point-of-contact’s mobile phone number.  Once TSA collects this information, TSA Cares will contact MSIJSOC, where the staff will vet the request via the appropriate Wounded Warrior Care Coordinator to verify the wounded warriors, severely injured military members, and severely injured or disabled veterans’ eligibility.  After verifying eligibility, the MSIJSOC will contact the respective TSA employee designated to coordinate MSIJSOC requests at the appropriate airport for action.

The TPO program facilitates the movement of foreign dignitaries, accredited Ambassadors to the United States, and others who may require an escort through the airport security screening process.  These travelers may contact the TPO office by submitting a request for travel support via telephone.  TSA will collect the traveler’s name, travel itinerary (scheduled flight departure and arrival information), and a point-of-contact’s mobile phone number.

The data collected will aid in notifying the appropriate TSA airport personnel and ensure escort assistance is provided in a respectful and courteous manner.  The Federal Security Director and their staff will ensure appropriate staffing is available at the affected passenger screening locations.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.]

TSA uses an electronic collection technique.  Once flight arrangements are made with the airlines, the wounded, severely injured or disabled traveler, their family, or other representative may contact the TSA Cares Hotline.  TSA collects the traveler’s information and enters the data in an electronic version of TSA Form 417 (Screening Assistance Request).  TSA Cares then sends this collected data to MSIJSOC via email for verification of eligibility and coordinating with the appropriate personnel.  The MSIJSOC emails the completed form to the respective Federal Security Director-designated employee at the appropriate airport to assist the Wounded Warrior and traveling companions.  A similar process is followed for VIP individuals using the TPO.  The VIP travelers contact the TPO, which then enters the collected data in an electronic version of TSA Form 412 (Travel Support Request) and notifies via email the appropriate TSA airport personnel.

Usability Testing Requirement:
Pursuant to a new DHS requirement, all Information Collection Requests (ICRs) must undergo usability testing (UX) prior to submission to OMB.  See DHS Fiscal Year 2024 Burden Reduction Plan Memorandum dated, September 22, 2023.

TSA completed UX on TSA Forms 412 and 417.  The purpose was to evaluate the total time burden for the completion of the forms and the use of plain language.  The UX included five participants, all completing electronic copies of the forms.  One participant was familiar with the forms, while the other four were vaguely familiar with them.  Participants were provided with sample data taken directly from a request sent to the TPO and MSIJSOC in September 2024, which gave the participants the needed information to complete the forms.

TSA found that the total time to complete the forms averaged 5 minutes across the five participants, which aligns with TSA’s current estimate of 5 minutes to complete the forms.  TSA will not make any changes to the current burden estimate.

In the use of plain language, the participants found the forms clear and easy to understand.  However, for TSA Form 412, one participant noted a few typos and recommended that they be corrected.  For TSA Form 417, one participant noted the instructions could benefit from the inclusion of an email to which completed forms may be submitted.  The participant pointed out that even though the MSIJSOC contact information was present in Section I of the form, the inclusion of the email in the instructions would provide clarity.  In addition, the participant recommended verifying the contact information in Section I.

TSA verified that the contact information in Section I of both forms was current.  However, TSA removed the facsimile contact information as it is out of commission.  TSA will correct the typos in TSA Form 412 and add the program office emails in the instructions for both forms.

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

This information is not collected elsewhere in any form; therefore, it is not a duplicative collection.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize burden.

This information collection does not have an impact on small business or other small entities.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

If the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, TSA would not be implementing a Congressional mandate, the Helping Heroes Fly Act, to support and facilitate the ease of travel and, to the extent possible, provide expedited passenger screening services for severely injured or disabled members of the Armed Forces and severely injured or disabled veterans through passenger screening.  Technical or legal obstacles will not be an issue in reducing the burden.

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

There are no special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

Describe efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

TSA published a Federal Register notice, with a 60-day comment period, soliciting comments on the information collection.  See 89 FR 77884 (September 24, 2024).  TSA also published an additional notice in the Federal Register with a 30-day running period.  See 89 FR 103851 (December 19, 2024).  TSA received no comments on the notices.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

No payment or gift will be provided to respondents.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

No specific assurances of confidentiality will be provided to individuals.  Information provided by individuals will be protected from disclosure to the extent appropriate under applicable provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974.  Data is collected and transmitted in accordance with the Privacy Act.  TSA published a Privacy Act system of records notice in the Federal Register, DHS/TSA-001, Transportation Security Enforcement Record System (TSERS).  See 78 FR 73868 (Dec. 9, 2013).  Also, a Privacy Impact Assessment, DHS/TSA/PIA-043, Travel Protocol Office Program, was published on March 26, 2014, on www.dhs.gov.

Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

There are no questions of a sensitive nature posed in the collection.
. 
Provide estimates of hour and cost burdens of the collection of information.

This information collection covers two distinct programs: MSIJSOC and TPO programs.  TSA estimates the annual number of respondents is 5,336 with 1,291 annual number of MSIJSOC respondents, and 4,045 annual number of TPO respondents.

TSA estimates that the hour burden associated with providing the necessary information to request screening assistance from MSIJSOC program and travel support from TPO program is 5 minutes (0.0833 hours) per respondent.  TSA estimates the annual hour burden for the MSIJSOC and TPO programs by multiplying the number of responses by the hour burden per response, 5,336 {1,291 + 4,045} × 0.0833.  TSA estimates the total annual hour burden to be 444.7 hours, or 1,334 hours over 3 years.

TSA estimates the hour burden cost associated with this information collection by multiplying the number of responses in the MSIJSOC and TPO programs by fully loaded average hourly wage rates of the respondents supplying information.  Since respondents in the MSIJSOC program can be employed in various industries and occupations, TSA uses the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $46.21 for all workers.  As per subject matter experts in the TSA TPO, the information provided to the TPO program are typically submitted by personnel serving as the points of contact for the eligible travelers.  TSA uses the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $92.24 for Federal, State, and Local Government Administrative Services Managers as a proxy for these personnel.  TSA estimates the total hour burden cost to be $36,062 per year ($4,971 for the MSIJSOC program + $31,091 for the TPO program).  

Provide an estimate of annualized capital and start-up costs to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the collection of information.

There are no capital or start-up costs associated with this collection of information.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

TSA estimates the Federal Government cost for this ICR is associated with conducting the necessary coordination to provide the travel support programs.  TSA estimates this cost based on the staff time required to process the traveler’s information once it has been received.

TSA TPO handles the submitted information in the same manner for responses from MSIJSOC and TPO programs covered by this collection.  TSA estimates that each response requires 15 minutes (0.25 hours) to process, submit and file by TSA F or G band employees.  TSA uses a fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $56.98 for these employees.  TSA estimates the hour burden cost for TSA (or Federal Government) by multiplying the number of responses by the time it takes to process each response and the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of employees processing, submitting, and filing the responses.  TSA estimates that the total hour burden cost is $76,018 for TSA to process, submit and file the information received.  

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

There are no program changes or adjustments required for items 13 or 14.  However, the number of respondents for the collection has decreased since the last renewal.

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

This information collection will not be published for any reason.  Any type of metric captured for the airport movements are provided to an annual report for the Helping Heroes Fly Act, an annual request to Congress.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

TSA is not seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of this information collection.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

There are no exceptions at this time.

PART word/footnotes.xml



 TSA TPO provided the hour burden.
 Those eligible to request screening assistance from MSIJSOC program can submit the necessary travel information via email or toll-free telephone number.  For the TPO program, eligible travelers or their point of contact request travel support via email, telephone, or fax.
 Employer Costs for Employee Compensation (ECEC), a product of the National Compensation Survey, measures employer costs for wages, salaries, and employee benefits for nonfarm private and state and local government workers.  Bureau of Labor Statistics, ECEC News Release –ECEC – June 2024.  Table 1.  ECEC by ownership.  Civilian Workers.  Released 9/10/2024.  https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_09102024.htm.  Retrieved 10/11/2024.
 TSA uses the mean hourly wage rate of $51.37 for Federal Administrative Services Managers as a proxy wage rate for the personnel who send the request for screening assistance and submit travel information for the TPO program on behalf of the eligible travelers.  BLS.  May 2023 National Industry-Specific Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates.  NAICS 999000 - Federal, State, and Local Government, excluding state and local schools and hospitals and the U.S. Postal Service.  11-3011 Administrative Services Managers.  Last Modified Date: 4/3/2024.  https://www.bls.gov/oes/2023/May/naics3_999000.htm#11-0000.  Retrieved 10/11/2024.
TSA uses the compensation factor for State and Local Government workers. For management, professional, and related occupational group, hourly total compensation is $72.96 and hourly wages and salaries are $46.48.  TSA estimates the compensation factor as 1.56971 ($72.96 ÷ $46.48).  BLS, Employer Cost for Employee Compensation News Release - Employer Costs for Employee Compensation – June 2024. Table 3. Employer costs per hour worked for employee compensation and costs as a percent of total compensation: state and local government workers.  Management, professional, and related Occupational Group.  Last Modified 9/10/2024.  https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_09102024.htm.  Retrieved 10/11/2024.
TSA multiplies the average hourly wage rate by a compensation factor of 1.56971 to account for the full cost of compensation and obtains a fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $ ($92.24 × 1.56971).
 TSA TPO provided the hour burden.
 TSA TPO is staffed with both F and G band employees who are responsible for processing, submitting and filing the traveler information received.  TSA uses the fully loaded total annual compensation of $107,927 for F band employees and $129,927 for G band employees (the average fully-loaded wage rates for F and G band employees, Step 5, for the National Capital Region).  TSA estimates the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $56.98 by dividing the fully loaded annual compensation by 2,087 hours (the number of hours in a work year).  