PART word/document.xml
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Information Collection Request
Title: NESHAP for Hazardous Waste Combustors (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments) August 2025
OMB Control Number: 2060-0743
EPA ICR Number: 1773.14
Abstract: The National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) from Hazardous Waste Combustors (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) were proposed on April 19, 1996; promulgated on September 30, 1999; amended following a vacatur on October 12, 2005; and most-recently amended on May 30, 2023. These regulations apply to the following types of new and existing combustion units that burn hazardous waste: incinerators, cement kilns, lightweight aggregate kilns, solid fuel boilers, liquid fuel boilers, and hydrochloric acid production furnaces. This information is being collected to assure compliance with 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE.
In general, all NESHAP require initial notifications, performance tests, and periodic reports by the owners/operators of the affected facilities. They are also required to maintain records of the occurrence and duration of any deviation, or any period during which the monitoring system is inoperative. These notifications, reports, and records are essential in determining compliance, and are required of all affected facilities subject to NESHAP.
Any owner/operator subject to the provisions of this part shall maintain a file containing these documents and retain the file for at least five years following the generation date of such measurements, maintenance reports, and records unless otherwise specified in the rule. All reports required to be submitted electronically are submitted through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), where the delegated state or local authority can review them. In the event that there is no such delegated authority, the EPA regional office can review them.  All other reports are sent to the delegated state or local authority. In the event that there is no such delegated authority, the reports are sent directly to the EPA regional offices.
The proposed amendments to the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP include the following:
Establishing emission standards for hydrogen fluoride and hydrogen cyanide for subcategories with those emissions
Establishing work practice standards for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction
Adding electronic submittal of performance test results, notification of compliance reports, and certain other submissions as detailed below
Allowing states to choose to exempt area sources from the requirement to obtain a title V permit
Removing the requirement that carbon monoxide is kept between the average and maximum reported values during the confirmatory performance test
Explicitly allowing incorporation by reference of operating parameter limits determined during the comprehensive performance test into title V permits
Clarifying that a relative accuracy test audit must be performed within 60 days of every comprehensive performance test
Removing the requirement that sources install and operate particulate matter continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS)
Removing references that were incorrectly incorporated by reference and have since expired
Clarifying the demonstration of compliance timeframe for new standards and removing an outdated demonstration of compliance timeframe for the 2005 Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP
Updating definitions
Updating references to the general provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A
Clarifying that records must be kept of operating conditions during performance testing
Clarifying appropriate compliance demonstration methods
Clarifying the obligations of sources if they fail to meet an applicable standard
Updating outdated web and electronic mailing addresses
Minor editorial corrections.

The remaining portions of the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP remain unchanged.
There are approximately 163 hazardous waste combustors at 92 facilities owned by 57 parent corporate entities and the Federal government subject to the standard, consisting of 62 incinerators, 14 cement kilns, 2 lightweight aggregate kilns, 7 solid fuel boilers, 61 liquid fuel boilers, and 17 hydrochloric acid production furnaces. The number of identified hazardous waste combustors has changed from that in the currently approved ICR, as several combustors were identified as no longer being affected facilities through the rulemaking process. As suggested by the discrepancy between the number of combustors and the number of facilities, some facilities have more than one hazardous waste combustor. Certain reports and notifications are commonly combined for all combustors at a single facility, while others may be sent separately for each combustor. The respondent is considered each hazardous waste combustor. Over the next three years, approximately 165 respondents per year will be subject to revised requirements, which includes an estimated one additional hazardous waste combustor unit per year that will become subject to these same standards during this period. 
Hazardous waste combustors are primarily owned or operated by privately-owned, for-profit companies (the “Affected Public”). Several hazardous waste combustors are owned by the Federal government; however, the assumption has been made that the facilities owned by the Federal government are all operated by contractors to the Federal government and will respond to the information collection. The burden to the Affected Public may be found below in Table 1: Average Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments). The Federal Government’s burden is attributed to work performed by either Federal employees or government contractors and may be found below in Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments). 
In the “Terms of Clearance” for the currently active Information Collection Request (ICR), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) instructed that in the resubmission, the screenshot for the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) should show the ICR information for this specific ICR. That instruction has been fulfilled.
Supporting Statement A
NEED AND AUTHORITY FOR THE COLLECTION
Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary. Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.
The EPA is charged under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, to establish standards of performance for each category or subcategory of major sources and area sources of hazardous air pollutants. These standards are applicable to new or existing sources of hazardous air pollutants and shall require the maximum degree of emission reduction. In addition, section 114(a) states that the Administrator may require any owner/operator subject to any requirement of this Act to: 
(A) Establish and maintain such records; (B) make such reports; (C) install, use, and maintain such monitoring equipment, and use such audit procedures, or methods; (D) sample such emissions (in accordance with such procedures or methods, at such locations, at such intervals, during such periods, and in such manner as the Administrator shall prescribe); (E) keep records on control equipment parameters, production variables or other indirect data when direct monitoring of emissions is impractical; (F) submit compliance certifications in accordance with Section 114(a)(3); and (G) provide such other information as the Administrator may reasonably require.
In the Administrator's judgment, hazardous air pollutants emissions from hazardous waste combustors either cause or contribute to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and/or welfare. Therefore, the NESHAP were promulgated for this source category at 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE.
PRACTICAL UTILITY/USERS OF THE DATA
Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used. Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.
The recordkeeping and reporting requirements in these standards ensure compliance with the applicable regulations, which were promulgated in accordance with the Clean Air Act. The collected information is also used for targeting inspections and as evidence in legal proceedings.
Performance tests are required in order to determine an affected facility’s initial capability to comply with these emission standards. CEMS are used to ensure compliance with these same standards at all times. During the performance test a record of the operating parameters under which compliance was achieved may be recorded and used to determine compliance in place of a CEMS.
The notifications required in the standards are used to inform the Agency or delegated authority when a source becomes subject to the requirements of the regulations. The reviewing authority may then inspect the source to check if the pollution control devices are properly installed and operated, leaks are being detected and repaired, and that the standards are being met. The performance test may also be observed.
The required excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports are used to determine periods of excess emissions, identify problems at the facility, verify operation/maintenance procedures, and for compliance determinations.
The EPA has used information collected under the information collection to evaluate and update the standards as necessary, as required under section 112 of the Clean Air Act.
Additionally, the EPA is proposing electronic reporting for certain notifications or reports. The EPA is requiring that owners or operators of affected sources would submit electronic copies of performance test reports required in 40 CFR 63.1211(f); performance evaluation reports required in 40 CFR 63.1211(f); eligibility demonstrations required in 40 CFR 63.1215(e)(2)(i)(A) if a source opts to use the alternative hydrochloric acid and chlorine standard; periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports required in 40 CFR 63.10(d)(5)(i); notifications of intent to comply required in 40 CFR 63.1210(b); notifications of compliance required in 40 CFR 63.1207(j) and 40 CFR 63.1210(d); compliance progress reports required in 40 CFR 63.10(d)(4); and excess emissions and continuous monitoring system (CMS) performance and summary reports required in 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3) and 40 CFR 63.1211(a)(1) through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). For the notification of compliance and excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports, the EPA is proposing templates for the reporting forms in CEDRI specifically for 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE. For the eligibility demonstrations, notifications of intent to comply, and compliance progress reports, owners and operators would be required to upload a PDF of the required notifications. 
CEDRI includes the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) software, which is used by facilities to generate electronic reports of performance tests. EPA is also proposing that 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE performance test reports and performance evaluation reports be submitted through the EPA’s ERT.
USE OF TECHNOLOGY
Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection. Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.
Currently, many hazardous waste combustor facilities are using monitoring equipment that provides automated parameter data (e.g., control device parameter monitoring). Although personnel at the facilities still need to evaluate the data, this type of monitoring equipment has significantly reduced the burden associated with monitoring and recordkeeping. In addition, some regulatory agencies are setting up electronic reporting systems to allow sources to report electronically, which is reducing the reporting burden. 
As part of the proposed amendments to the NESHAP, respondents would use the EPA’s Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) to develop performance test and performance evaluation reports and submit them through the EPA’s CEDRI. The ERT is an application rather than a form, and the requirement to use the ERT is applicable to numerous subparts. The splash screen of the ERT contains a link to the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) requirements, such as the OMB Control Number, expiration date, and burden estimate for this and other subparts. Respondents are also required to submit eligibility demonstrations if a source opts to use the alternative hydrochloric acid and chlorine standard; periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports; notifications of intent to comply; notifications of compliance; compliance progress reports; and excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports through the EPA’s CEDRI. The notification of compliance and excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports are to be created through the electronic templates included with this Supporting Statement. Form numbers will be provided in the final ICR. The eligibility demonstrations, notifications of intent to comply, and compliance progress reports are an upload of their currently required notification in portable document format (PDF) file. The templates are Excel spreadsheets which can be partially completed and saved for subsequent reports to limit some repetitive data entry. They reflect the reporting elements required by the rule and do not impose additional reporting elements. The OMB Control Number is displayed on the Welcome page of the template, with a link to an online repository that contains the PRA requirements. For purposes of this ICR, it is assumed that there will be some additional burden associated with respondents becoming familiar with CEDRI and some reduction in burden associated with no longer being required to physically submit some responses.
EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY DUPLICATION
Describe efforts to identify duplication. Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Item 2 above.
For reports required to be submitted electronically, the information is sent through the EPA's CDX, using CEDRI, where the appropriate EPA regional office can review it, as well as state and local agencies that have been delegated authority. If a state or local agency has adopted under its own authority its own standards for reporting or data collection, adherence to those non-Federal requirements does not constitute duplication. 
For all other reports, if the subject standards have not been delegated, the information is sent directly to the appropriate EPA regional office. Otherwise, the information is sent directly to the delegated state or local agency. If a state or local agency has adopted its own standards to implement the Federal standards, a copy of the report submitted to the state or local agency can be sent to the Administrator in lieu of the report required by the Federal standards. Therefore, duplication does not exist. 
MINIMIZING BURDEN ON SMALL BUSINESSES AND SMALL ENTITIES
If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any methods used to minimize burden.
Approximately 8 of the 57 parent corporate entities are small entities. Due to technical considerations involving the process operations and the types of control equipment employed, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements are the same for both small and large entities. The Agency considers these to be the minimum requirements needed to ensure compliance and, therefore, cannot reduce them further for small entities.
CONSEQUENCES OF LESS FREQUENT COLLECTION
Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.
This proposal does not change the frequency of collection for existing submissions, only the submission format for electronic reporting. It also adds content to the comprehensive performance test plan, comprehensive test report, and notification of compliance, which are each collected once every 5 years. Less-frequent information collection would decrease the margin of assurance that facilities are continuing to meet these standards. Requirements for information gathering and recordkeeping are useful techniques to ensure that good operation and maintenance practices are applied, and emission limitations are met. If the information required by these standards and the final amendments was collected less-frequently, the proper operation and maintenance of control equipment and the possibility of detecting violations would be less likely.
GENERAL GUIDELINES
Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with PRA Guidelines at 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).
These standards require the respondents to maintain all records, including reports and notifications for at least five years. This is consistent with the General Provisions as applied to the standards. EPA believes that the 5-year records retention requirement is consistent with the Part 70 permit program and the 5-year statute of limitations on which the permit program is based. The retention of records for five years allows EPA to establish the compliance history of a source, any pattern of non-compliance and to determine the appropriate level of enforcement action. EPA has found that the most flagrant violators have violations extending beyond five years. In addition, EPA would be prevented from pursuing the violators due to either the destruction or nonexistence of essential records in the absence of the 5-year maintenance requirement.
PUBLIC COMMENT AND CONSULTATIONS
8a. Public Comment
If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the Agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d), soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB. Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the Agency in response to these comments. Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.
EPA solicited comments on this proposed ICR on November 10, 2025 (90 FR 50814).  All comments will be considered during the development of the final rule and final ICR. A summary of the comments received will be placed in the docket for this rulemaking, Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2004-0022. 
8b. Consultations
Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the Agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported. Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or those who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years - even if the collection of information activity is the same as in prior periods. There may be circumstances that may preclude consultation in a specific situation. These circumstances should be explained.
The Agency has consulted industry experts to better understand the hazardous waste combustor industry. Stakeholder outreach regarding the notice of proposed rulemaking occurred with industry groups, including the American Chemistry Council, the Cement Kiln Recycling Coalition, the Coalition for Responsible Waste Incineration, and member companies of these organizations. Further stakeholder and public input will be obtained through public comment following publication of the proposed amendments to 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE in the Federal Register and follow-up meetings with interested stakeholders.
PAYMENTS OR GIFTS TO RESPONDENTS
Explain any decisions to provide payments or gifts to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.
The Agency does not intend to provide payments or gifts to respondents as part of this collection. 
ASSURANCE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or Agency policy. If the collection requires a systems of records notice (SORN) or privacy impact assessment (PIA), those should be cited and described here.
Any information submitted to the Agency for which a claim of confidentiality is made will be safeguarded according to the Agency policies set forth in Title 40, chapter 1, part 2, subpart B - Confidentiality of Business Information (CBI) (see 40 CFR 2; 41 FR 36902, September 1, 1976; amended by 43 FR 40000, September 8, 1978; 43 FR 42251, September 20, 1978; 44 FR 17674, March 23, 1979).
JUSTIFICATION FOR SENSITIVE QUESTIONS
Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private. This justification should include the reasons why the Agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent.
None of the reporting or recordkeeping requirements in these standards, including the proposed amendments, contain sensitive questions.
RESPONDENT BURDEN HOURS & LABOR COSTS
Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information. The statement should:
Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and an explanation of how the burden was estimated. Generally, estimates should not include burden hours for customary and usual business practices.
If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour burden estimates for each form and the aggregate the hour burdens.
Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for collections of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories. The cost of contracting out or paying outside parties for information collection activities should not be included here. Instead, this cost should be included as O&M costs under non-labor costs covered under question 13.
12a. Respondents/NAICS Codes
The respondents to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE) are hazardous waste incinerators, hazardous waste cement kilns, hazardous waste lightweight aggregate kilns, hazardous waste solid fuel boilers, hazardous waste liquid fuel boilers and hazardous waste hydrochloric acid production furnaces. The United States Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes and corresponding North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes for respondents affected by the standard are listed in the following table: 
40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE | SIC Codes | NAICS Codes
Petroleum and  c oal  p roducts  m anufacturing | 2911 | 324
Chemical  m anufacturing | 2869, 2899 | 325 
Cement and concrete product manufacturing | 3241 | 3273
Other nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing | 3295 | 3279
Waste treatment and disposal | 4953 | 5622
Remediation and other waste management services | 4959 | 5629

Based on our research for the notice of proposed rulemaking ICR, on average over the next three years approximately 165 respondents per year will be subject to revised requirements, which includes the current inventory of 163 existing sources an estimated one additional hazardous waste combustor unit per year that will become subject to these same standards during this period. This is a decrease of 5 units from the current ICR due to confirmed unit closures. Because three years are provided to comply with the final revisions, the overall average number of respondents over the 3-year period of this ICR, as shown in the table below, is 165 per year. Because many facilities have multiple hazardous waste combustors and in keeping with the currently approved ICR, the average number of respondents conducting recordkeeping and reporting activities in each year is calculated as 1/3 of the total respondent universe, or 55 respondents with reporting and recordkeeping each year.
The number of respondents is calculated using the following table that addresses the three years covered by this ICR: 

Number of Respondents (Total for 3-Year Period)
Year | (A)  Number of New Respondents  That Submit Reports 2 | (B)  Number of Existing Respondents  That Submit Reports | (C)  Number of Existing Respondents that  K eep  R ecords but do not  S ubmit  R eports | (D)  Number of Existing Respondents That Are Also New Respondents | (E)  Number of Respondents (E=A+B+C-D) 1
1  | 1  | 163  | 0  | 0  | 164 
2  | 1  | 164  | 0  | 0  | 165 
3  | 1  | 165  | 0  | 0  | 166 
Average Total Respondents | 1  | 164  | 0  | 0  | 165 
Avg. Respondents with Reporting & Recordkeeping each year 3 | 1  | 55 | 0 | 0 | 55
1Column D is subtracted to avoid double-counting respondents.
2New respondents include sources with constructed, reconstructed, and modified affected facilities
3The average number of respondents conducting reporting and recordkeeping activities in each year is calculated as 1/3 of the total respondent universe. Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.

The total number of annual responses expected in relation to this proposal accounts for the possibility that respondents to submit more than one notification per year (e.g., if a facility chooses to certify compliance separately for some combustors) or more than one notification per respondent in successive (e.g., if a facility must make iterative adjustments to come into compliance that require multiple notifications). Electronic reporting of already-required notification and reports is not considered a new response, just a change in format of the response expected in the currently approved ICR. The number of responses also accounts for removing the requirement that combustors operate a particulate matter CEMS and is a direct negation of the ICR line items related to this requirement in the currently approved ICR. The total number of annual responses per year is calculated using the following table: 

Total Annual Responses
 (A)  Information Collection Activity | (B)  No. of  Responses Submitted  Per Year |  (C)  Number of Existing Respondents That Keep Records But Do Not Submit Responses | (D) Total Annual Responses (D) = (B+C)
Notifications (construction/modification, start-up, initial/repeat performance test, CEMS start/stop, exemptions)  | 92 | 0 | 92
Removal of particulate matter CEMS correlation test plan | -12 | 0 | -12
  |   | Total |                                                  80 

The number of total annual responses is 80. 
The average total annual labor costs are $266,665. Details regarding these estimates may be found below in Table 1: Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments).
12b. Information Requested
All data in this ICR that are recorded and/or reported are required by the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE). The Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP references 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, for several general reporting and recordkeeping requirements that apply for all NESHAP.
In the current rule, performance test and performance evaluation reports must be submitted with the notification of compliance. This proposal splits out the performance test and performance evaluation reports from the notification of compliance so that sources can use the ERT format for the reports and the templated format for the notification of compliance. This does not require the generation of new information, just allows separate, appropriate electronic submission formats for each. All notifications and reports required by the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP are listed below, and new proposed requirements are indicated by an asterisk:
Notifications
Application for construction or reconstruction. | §63.5(d)
Initial notifications that you are subject to Subpart EEE of this Part (including reclassification to area source status or to revert to major source status) (electronic submission) | §63.9(b)
Notification that you are subject to special compliance requirements. | §63.9(d)
Notification and documentation of any change in information already provided under §63.9 (including reclassification to area source status or to revert to major source status) (electronic submission) | §63.9(j)
Notification of changes in design, operation, or maintenance. | §63.1206(b)(5)(i)
Notification of excessive bag leak detection system exceedances. | §63.1206(c)(8)(iv)
Notification of excessive particulate matter detection system exceedances. | §63.1206(c)(9)(viii)
Notification of performance test and continuous monitoring system evaluation, including the performance test plan and CMS performance evaluation plan. | §§63.1207(e), 63.1209(d), 63.8(e)(2) and (3), 63.7(b), 63.9(e), 63.9(g)(1) and (3)
Notification of use of COMS data for compliance with the opacity emission standard during a performance test and whether the criterion necessary to continue use of an alternative to relative accuracy testing has been exceeded. | §§63.9(g)(2) and (3) 
Notification of intent to comply. | §63.1210(b) and (c)
Notification of compliance, including results of performance tests and continuous monitoring system performance evaluations. | §§63.1210(d), 63.1207(j), 63.1207(k), 63.1207(l), 63.8(e)(5), 63.9(h), 63.10(d)(2), 63.10(e)(2), 63.7(g)
Adjustment to time periods or postmark deadlines for submittal and review of required information. | §63.9(i)
Request to reduce the frequency of excess emissions and CMS performance reports. | §63.10(e)(3)(ii)
Request to waive recordkeeping or reporting requirements. | §63.10(f)
Notification to comply with the emission averaging requirements for cement kilns with in-line raw mills. | §§63.1204(d)(2)(iii), 63.1220(d)(2)(iii)
Notification to comply with the emission averaging requirements for preheater or preheater/precalciner kilns with dual stacks. | §§63.1204(e)(2)(iii), 63.1220(e)(2)(iii)
Extension of the compliance date for up to one year. | §§63.1206(b)(4), 63.1213, 63.6(i), 63.9(c)
Request to burn hazardous waste for more than 720 hours and for purposes other than testing or pretesting. | §63.1206(b)(5)(i)(C)
Submittal of PM CEMS correlation test plan for review and approval. | §63.1206(b)(8)(iii)(B)
Request approval for waiver of particulate matter and opacity standards and associated operating limits and conditions. | §63.1206(b)(8)(v)
 Request approval of alternative emission standards for mercury, semivolatile metal, low volatile metal, and hydrogen chloride/chlorine gas for lightweight aggregate kilns or cement kilns. | §63.1206(b)(9), §63.1206(b)(10)
Request to comply with an alternative to the particulate matter standard (incinerators only). | §63.1206(b)(14)
Request to comply with the alternative to the interim standards for mercury (cement and lightweight aggregate kilns). | §63.1206(b)(15)
Request changes to the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. | §63.1206(c)(2)(ii)(C)
Request an alternative means of control for combustion system leaks. | §63.1206(c)(5)(i)(C)
Request other techniques to prevent fugitive emissions without use of instantaneous pressure limits. | §63.1206(c)(5)(i)(D)
Request to base initial compliance on data in lieu of a comprehensive performance test. | §63.1207(c)(2)
Request more than 60 days to complete a performance test. | §63.1207(d)(3)
Request a time extension if the Administrator fails to approve or deny the test plan. | §§63.1207(e)(3), 63.7(h)
Request to waive current operating parameter limits during pretesting for more than 720 hours. | §63.1207(h)(2)
Request a reduced hazardous waste feedstream analysis for organic hazardous air pollutants. | §63.1207(f)(1)(ii)(D)
Request to operate under a wider operating range for a parameter during confirmatory performance testing. | §63.1207(g)(2)(v)
Request up to a one-year time extension for conducting a performance test (other than the initial comprehensive performance test). | §63.1207(i)
Request more than 90 days to submit a Notification of Compliance after completing a performance test. | §63.1207(j)(4)
Request to burn hazardous waste for more than 720 hours and for purposes other than testing or pretesting. | §63.1207(l)(3)
Request approval of alternative monitoring methods for compliance with standards that are monitored with a CEMS and approval to use CEMS in lieu of operating parameter limits. | §§63.1209(a)(5), 63.8(f)
Request approval of alternatives to operating parameter monitoring requirements or a waiver of an operating parameter limit. | §63.1209(g)(1)
Request to extrapolate mercury feedrate limits. | §63.1209(l)(1)
Request to extrapolate semivolatile and low volatile metal feedrate limits. | §63.1209(n)(2)
Request to use data compression techniques to record data on a less frequent basis than required by §63.1209. | §63.1211(d)
Request and eligibility demonstration for alternative risk-based limits for total chlorine.  | §63.1215(a)(1)(v)
Request to use an alternative CEMS span or range for CO, O 2 , and HC CEMS. | Appendix to Subpart EEE, Section 6.3.5

Reports
Compliance progress reports, if required as a condition of an extension of the compliance date granted under §63.6(i). | §63.10(d)(4)
Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports. | §63.10(d)(5)(i)
Immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports. | §63.10(d)(5)(ii)
Excessive emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report. | §63.10(e)(3)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. | §63.1206(c)(2)(ii)(B), 63.6(e)(3)
Excessive exceedances reports. | §63.1206(c)(3)(vi)
Emergency safety vent opening reports. | §63.1206(c)(4)(iv)
Performance test and performance evaluation reports* | §63. 1211(f)
*new proposed requirement
The proposal also proposes some changes in recordkeeping associated with the hydrogen fluoride work practice standards and startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements. The recordkeeping for the work practice standard is incorporated into current requirements, and so does not present a new stand-alone recordkeeping requirement. The proposed startup, shutdown, and malfunction recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR 63.1211(e) would replace the recordkeeping requirements under 40 CFR 63.10(b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii), and so have no additional burden associated with them. All recordkeeping required by the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP are listed below, and new proposed requirements are indicated by an asterisk:

Recordkeeping
Documentation of information required for compliance, including data recorded by CMS, and copies of all notifications, reports, plans, and other documents submitted to the Administrator. | §§63.1200, 63.10(b) and (c)
Documentation of mode of operation changes for cement kilns with in-line raw mills. | §§63.1204(d)(1)(ii), §63.1220(d)(1)(ii)
Documentation of compliance with the emission averaging requirements for cement kilns with in-line raw mills. | §§63.1204(d)(2)(ii), 63.1220(d)(2)(ii)
Documentation of compliance with the emission averaging requirements for preheater or preheater/precalciner kilns with dual stacks. | §§63.1204(e)(2)(ii), 63.1220(e)(2)(ii)
Documentation of compliance with all applicable Clean Air Act Sections 112 and 129 requirements in lieu of the requirements of Subpart EEE when not burning hazardous waste. | §63.1206(b)(1)(ii)
Documentation that a change will not adversely affect compliance with the emission standards or operating requirements. | §63.1206(b)(5)(ii)
Documentation of compliance with the Destruction and Removal Efficiency (DRE) standard. | §63.1206(b)(7)
Calculation of hazardous waste residence time. | §63.1206(b)(11)
Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. | §63.1206(c)(2)
Documentation of your investigation and evaluation of excessive exceedances during malfunctions. | §63.1206(c)(2)(v)(A)
Corrective measures for any automatic waste feed cutoff that results in an exceedance of an emission standard or operating parameter limit. | §63.1206(c)(3)(v)
Documentation and results of the automatic waste feed cutoff operability testing. | §63.1206(c)(3)(vii)
Documentation of waste feed ramp down procedures in the operating and maintenance plan.  | §63.1206(c)(3)(viii)
Emergency safety vent operating plan. | §63.1206(c)(4)(ii)
Corrective measures for any emergency safety vent opening. | §63.1206(c)(4)(iii)
Method used for control of combustion system leaks. | §63.1206(c)(5)(ii)
Operator training and certification program. | §63.1206(c)(6)
Operation and maintenance plan. | §63.1206(c)(7)(iv)
Feedrate of mercury, semivolatile metals, low volatile metals, and total chlorine from all feedstreams. | §63.1207(m)
Documentation of quality assurance (QA) and quality control (QC) program and data collected as a result of the QA and QC program. | § 63.1209(a)(2) and (d)(2), Appendix to Subpart EEE
Feedstream analysis plan. | §63.1209(c)(2)
CMS quality control program. | §§63.1209(d), 63.8(d)
Documentation that a substitute activated carbon, dioxin/furan formation reaction inhibitor, or dry scrubber sorbent will provide the same level of control as the original material. | §§63.1209(k)(6)(iii), 63.1209(k)(7)(ii), 63.1209(k)(9)(ii), 63.1209(o)(4)(iii)
Results of carbon bed performance monitoring. | §63.1209(k)(7)(i)(C)
Documentation of changes in modes of operation. | §63.1209(q)
Documentation of compliance. | §63.1211(c)
Documentation of startups, shutdowns, malfunctions, and failures to meet applicable standards.* | §63.1211( e )
*new proposed requirement

12c. Respondent Activities
The new respondent activities associated with this proposed ICR are as follows:

Review the regulatory requirements.
Perform initial and ongoing performance tests or performance evaluations.
Keep records associated with the hydrogen fluoride work practice standard
Support hydrogen fluoride and hydrogen cyanide performance testing 
Write any notifications and reports required to comply with new standards
Submit electronic notifications and reports
Review and revise operation and maintenance plans.
Two activities that are included in the current ICR relating to the operation of particulate matter CEMS will no longer be required due to the proposed removal of the requirement for particulate matter CEMS:
Prepare and submit a particulate matter CEMS correlation test plan
Request additional time extensions for waiving particulate matter and opacity standards.
The specific frequency for each information collection activity within this request is shown below in: Table 1: Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Final Amendments). Generally, reviewing regulatory requirements is a one-time requirement, performance tests to demonstrate compliance are required once every 5 years, recordkeeping is ongoing, notification of compliance with new standards is a one-time requirement, other electronic reports and notifications will follow the current schedule for those notifications (ranging from 2 times per year to once every 5 years), and reviewing and revising plans to comply with new standards is a one-time requirement.
12d. Respondent Burden Hours and Labor Costs
The average annual burden to industry over the next three years from the proposed recordkeeping and reporting requirements is estimated to be 2,420 hours (total labor hours from Table 1 below). These hours are based on Agency studies and background documents from the development of the regulation and amendments, Agency knowledge and experience with the NESHAP program, the previously approved ICR, and any comments received.
This ICR uses the following labor rates: 

Industry Worker Category  a | Labor Rates, $/hr  a | 110% Overhead | Total, $/hr
Managerial (11- 3051 ) | $ 71.15 | $ 78.27 | $ 149.42
Technical ( 17-112 ) | $ 54.33 | $ 59.76 | $ 70.31
Clerical (43- 9061 ) | $2 3.66 | $ 26.03 | $ 49.69
a Rates are mean hourly rates for May 2024 and are specific for the waste treatment and disposal industry NAICS 5622 as provided at https://data.bls.gov/oes/#/industry/562200. Numbers in parentheses are the specific BLS occupation codes used to estimate the hourly rates.  
Labor rates and associated costs are based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data. Technical, management, and clerical average hourly rates for private industry workers were taken from the May 2024 National Industry-Specific Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates: NAICS 5266 (Waste Treatment and Disposal). These BLS rates represent base salaries and do not include the cost of fringe benefits and other overhead costs. The rates have been increased by 110 percent to account for the benefit packages available to those employed by private industry.
The average total annual labor hours from the proposed amendments are 2,420, with an average of 80 annual responses. The change in average total annual response burden estimate is $267,000. Details regarding these estimates may be found below in Table 1. Average Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments).
We assume that burdens for managerial tasks take 5% of the time required for technical tasks because the typical tasks for managers are to review and approve reports. Clerical burdens are assumed to take 10% of the time required for technical tasks because the typical duties of clerical staff are to proofread the reports, make copies, and maintain records.
Furthermore, the annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden for the proposed changes to the collection of information is estimated to average 30 hours per response.
RESPONDENT CAPITAL AND O&M COSTS 
Provide an estimate for the total annual cost burden to respondents or record keepers resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden already reflected on the burden worksheet).
The cost estimate should be split into two components: (a) a total capital and start-up cost
component (annualized over its expected useful life) and (b) a total operation and maintenance and purchase of services component. The estimates should consider costs associated with generating, maintaining, and disclosing or providing the information. Include descriptions of methods used to estimate major cost factors including system and technology acquisition, expected useful life of capital equipment, the discount rate(s), and the period over which costs will be incurred. Capital and start-up costs include, among other items, preparations for collecting information such as purchasing computers and software; monitoring, sampling, drilling, and testing equipment; and record storage facilities.
If cost estimates are expected to vary widely, agencies should present ranges of cost burdens and explain the reasons for the variance. The cost of purchasing or contracting out information collections services should be a part of this cost burden estimate. 
Generally, estimates should not include purchases of equipment or services, or portions thereof, made: (1) prior to October 1, 1995, (2) to achieve regulatory compliance with requirements not associated with the information collection, (3) for reasons other than to provide information or keep records for the government, or (4) as part of customary and usual business or private practices.
The type of industry costs associated with the information collection activities in the subject standard are both labor costs, which are addressed elsewhere in this ICR, and the costs associated with monitoring. The capital/startup costs are one-time costs when a unit becomes subject to the regulation. The annual operation and maintenance costs are the ongoing costs to maintain the monitor(s), costs of contracting out performance testing, and other costs such as photocopying and postage.
Average Annual  Capital/Startup vs. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Costs
(A) | (B) | (C) | (D) | (E) | (F) | (G)
Continuous Monitoring Device | Capital/Startup Cost for One Respondent | Number of New Respondents  | Total Capital/Startup Cost, (B X C) | Annual O&M Costs for One Respondent | Number of Respondents with O&M | Total O&M,  (E X F)
HF  p erformance  t ests | $0 | 1 | $0 | $ 1,700 | 1 | $ 1,700
HCN  p erformance  t ests | $0 | 1  | $0 | $ 1,100 | 13   | $ 14,300
Removal of mailing cost for  n otifications and  r eports a | $0 | 0  | $0 | -$ 40 | 93   | -$3, 710
Removal of CEMS costs from 1 new source a | -$158,000 | 1  | -$158,000 | -$34,165 | 1  | -$34,165
Removal of particulate matter CEMS mailing cost for existing sources a | $0 | 0 | $0 | -$8 | 12 | - $96
Total (Rounded) b |   |   | -$158,000 |   |   | -$2 2 , 000
aBased on costs from currently approved ICR
bTotals have been rounded to 3 significant figures. Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.

The total capital/startup costs for the proposed rulemaking and associated changes to the ICR are a cost savings of $158,000 due to the removal of the requirement for new sources to install and operate a particulate matter CEMS. This is the total of column D in the table above.
The total operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for the proposed rulemaking and changes to the ICR are a cost savings of $22,000. This represents the net change in costs associated with performance tests and removal of costs associated with mailing physical reports and notifications and the removal of the requirement for new sources to install and operate a particulate matter CEMS. This is the total of column G in the table above.
The average change in annual cost for capital/startup and O&M costs to industry over the next three years of the ICR is estimated to be a savings of $180,000.
The average annual total cost to respondents (labor, capital/startup, and O&M) due to the proposed amendments is estimated to be $86,700. Numbers may not match exactly due to rounding.
AGENCY COSTS
Provide estimates of annualized costs to the Federal government. Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.
14a. Agency Activities
EPA conducts the following activities in connection with the acquisition, analysis, storage, and distribution of the required information:
Observe initial and ongoing performance tests and performance evaluations if necessary.
Review notifications and reports, including performance test and performance evaluation reports, required to be submitted by industry.
Audit facility records.
Input, analyze, and maintain data in the Enforcement and Compliance History Online (ECHO) and Integrated Compliance Information System (ICIS).
Following notification of startup, the reviewing authority could inspect the source to determine whether the pollution control devices are properly installed and operated. Performance test and performance evaluation reports are used by the Agency to discern a source’s capability to comply with the emission standard and note the operating conditions under which compliance was achieved. Data and records maintained by the respondents are tabulated and published for use in compliance and enforcement programs. The excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports are used for problem identification, as a check on source operation and maintenance, and for compliance determinations.
Information contained in the reports is reported by state and local governments in the ICIS Air database, which is operated and maintained by EPA's Office of Compliance. ICIS is EPA’s database for the collection, maintenance, and retrieval of compliance data for industrial and government-owned facilities. EPA uses ICIS for tracking air pollution compliance and enforcement by local and state regulatory agencies, EPA regional offices and EPA headquarters. EPA and its delegated Authorities can edit, store, retrieve and analyze the data.
The records required by this regulation must be retained by the owner/operator for five years unless otherwise specified.

14b. Agency Labor Cost
The only costs to the Agency are those costs associated with analysis of the reported information. EPA's overall compliance and enforcement program includes activities such as the examination of records maintained by the respondents, periodic inspection of sources of emissions, and the publication and distribution of collected information. 
The change in average annual Agency labor cost due to the proposed amendments during the three years of the ICR is estimated to be a savings of $7,110. This cost is based on the average hourly labor rate as follows:
Agency Worker Categories  a | Labor Rates, $/hr  a | 60% Overhead | Total, $/hr
Managerial (GS-1 3 , step 5) | $ 48.89 | $2 9.33 | $ 78.22
Technical (GS-1 2 , step  1 )  | $3 6.28 | $ 21.77 | $ 58.05
Clerical (GS-6, step 3) | $1 9.63 | $1 1.78 | $ 31.41
a https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salary-tables/25Tables/html/GS_h.aspx
These rates are from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), 2025 General Schedule, which excludes locality rates of pay. The rates have been increased by 60 percent to account for the benefit packages available to government employees. Details upon which this estimate is based appear below in Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments). 
The change in average annual Agency burden and cost over next three years is estimated to be 122 fewer labor hours with a cost savings of $7,110; see below in Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments).
We assume that burdens for managerial tasks take 5% of the time required for technical tasks, because the typical tasks for managers are to review and approve reports. Clerical burdens are assumed to take 10% of the time required for technical tasks because the typical duties of clerical staff are to proofread the reports, make copies, and maintain records.
14c. Agency Non-Labor Costs
We assume an annual cost savings of $12 per year associated with removing the requirement for particulate matter CEMS; the EPA will no longer mail responses to particulate matter CEMS correlation test plans and requests for additional time extensions. The magnitude of these savings are the cost associated with these mailings in the currently approved ICR; see below in Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments).
14d. Agency Total Costs
The change in the average annual Agency burden and cost over next three years due to the proposed amendments is estimated to be 122 fewer labor hours at a cost savings of $7,110 and a cost savings of $12 in mailing costs for a total reduction in average Agency burden of $7,120; see below in Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – NESHAP for Hazardous Waste Combustor (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments). Numbers may not add or match exactly due to rounding.
REASONS FOR CHANGE IN BURDEN
Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in the burden or capital/O&M cost estimates.
This ICR is prepared for proposed amendments to the Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE). These proposed amendments, if finalized, would: 
Adjust references to the Part 63 General Provisions (40 CFR, Part 63, Subpart A) 
Add electronic submittal of performance test reports; performance evaluation reports; eligibility demonstrations; periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports; notifications of intent to comply; notifications of compliance; compliance progress reports; and excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports
Make technical and editorial changes including: establishing emission standards for hydrogen fluoride and hydrogen cyanide for some subcategories, as required; establishing work practice standards for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction; allowing states to choose to exempt area sources from the requirement to obtain a title V permit; removing the requirement that carbon monoxide is kept between the average and maximum reported values during the confirmatory performance test; explicitly allowing incorporation by reference of operating parameter limits determined during the comprehensive performance test into title V permits; clarifying that a relative accuracy test audit must be performed within 60 days of every comprehensive performance test; removing the requirement that sources install and operate particulate matter CEMS; removing references that were incorrectly incorporated by reference and have since expired; clarifying the demonstration of compliance timeframe for new standards and removing an outdated demonstration of compliance timeframe for the 2005 hazardous waste combustor NESHAP; updating definitions; clarifying that records must be kept of operating conditions during performance testing; clarifying appropriate compliance demonstration methods; clarifying the obligations of sources if they fail to meet an applicable standard; updating outdated web and electronic mailing addresses; and other minor editorial corrections.
Where applicable, adjustments to the currently approved ICR for these proposed amendments are reflected in Tables 1 and 2 of this ICR. Table 3 shows the total changes in burden between the previously approved ICR and the ICR after the changes proposed in this action.
This ICR reflects only the changed burden associated with the proposed rule revisions. Additional burden was added to review the amendments, review new electronic reporting forms, adjust recordkeeping processes to ensure data needed to complete the reporting forms are collected in the proper format, support performance testing, and notify the EPA of various changes. Burden was decreased due to the removal of the requirement that units install and operate particulate matter CEMS and mailing physical communications that will be replaced with electronic reporting. The number of respondents was also updated for the changes due to the proposed amendments only based on the updated facility list developed for the notice of proposed rulemaking.
PUBLICATION OF DATA
For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication. Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used. Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.
Following notification of startup, the reviewing authority could inspect the source to determine whether the pollution control devices are properly installed and operated. Performance test and performance evaluation reports are used by the Agency to discern a source’s capability to comply with the emission standard and note the operating conditions under which compliance was achieved. Data and records maintained by the respondents are tabulated and published for use in compliance and enforcement programs. The excess emissions and CMS performance and summary reports are used for problem identification, as a check on source operation and maintenance, and for compliance determinations.
Information contained in the reports is reported by state and local governments in the ICIS Air database, which is operated and maintained by EPA's Office of Compliance. ICIS is EPA’s database for the collection, maintenance, and retrieval of compliance data for industrial and government-owned facilities. EPA uses ICIS for tracking air pollution compliance and enforcement by local and state regulatory agencies, EPA regional offices and EPA headquarters. EPA and its delegated Authorities can edit, store, retrieve and analyze the data.
 The records required by this regulation must be retained by the owner/operator for five years unless otherwise specified.
DISPLAY OF EXPIRATION DATE 
If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.
The Agency plans to display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection on all instruments. 
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Explain each exception to the topics of the certification statement identified in “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions.”
This information collection complies with all provisions of the Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions. 
BURDEN STATEMENT 
The annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 30 hours per response. “Burden” means the total time, effort, or financial resources expended by persons to generate, maintain, retain, or disclose or provide information to or for a Federal agency. This includes the time needed to review instructions; develop, acquire, install, and utilize technology and systems for the purposes of collecting, validating, and verifying information, processing and maintaining information, and disclosing and providing information; adjust the existing ways to comply with any previously applicable instructions and requirements; train personnel to be able to respond to a collection of information; search data sources; complete and review the collection of information; and transmit or otherwise disclose the information.
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. The OMB control numbers for EPA's regulations in 40 CFR are listed in 40 CFR part 9. When the final version of this ICR is approved by OMB, the Agency will publish a technical amendment to 40 CFR part 9 in the Federal Register to display the OMB control number for the approved information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule.
Submit comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including the use of automated collection techniques, to Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OAR-2004-0022. An electronic version of the public docket is available at http://www.regulations.gov/, which may be used to obtain a copy of the draft collection of information, submit or view public comments, access the index listing of the contents of the docket, and to access those documents in the public docket that are available electronically. When in the system, select “search,” then key in the docket ID number identified in this document. The documents are also available for public viewing at the Enforcement and Compliance Docket and Information Center in the EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW, Washington, DC. The EPA Docket Center Public Reading Room is open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. Also, you can send comments to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20503, Attention: Desk Officer for EPA. Please include the EPA Docket ID Number EPA-HQ-OAR-2004-0022 and OMB Control Number 2060-0743 in any correspondence. 



Table 1: Average Annual Respondent Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments)
  | Person Hours Per Year (by Labor Category) | Total Person Hours per Respondent | Total Labor Costs Per Respondent | Capital/ Startup Costs | O&M Costs | Total Hours and Costs
 | Management | Technical | Clerical |  |  |  |  | # of Respondents | Total Hours | Capital/ Startup ($/yr) | O&M Cost ($/yr) | Total Labor Cost ($/yr)
 | $149.42 | $114.09 | $49.69 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
1.  New Standard Requirements |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 
HF Work Practice Standard and associated Recordkeeping |   | 5.5 |   | 5.5 | $627 | $0 | $0 | 43 | 236 | $0 | $0 | $26,945 | 
HF Performance Tests |   | 2.0 |   | 2 | $228 | $0 | $ 1,700 | 1 | 2 | $0 | $ 1,700 | $228 | 
HCN Performance Tests |   | 2.0 |   | 2 | $228 | $0 | $ 1,100 | 13 | 26 | $0 | $ 14,300 | $2,966 | 
Subtotal for MACT Floor Requirements | 0.0 | 9.5 | 0.0 | 9.5 | $1,083 |   |   |   | 264 | $0 | $ 16,000 | $30,140 | 
2.  e-Reporting Requirements |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 
Familiarize with regulatory requirements | 0.2 | 4.0 | 0.4 | 4.6 | $506 |   $0 | $0   | 31 | 144 |   $0 |   $0 | $15,859 | 
Notifications (construction/modification, start-up, initial/repeat performance test, CEMS start/stop, exemptions)  | 0.3 | 5.0 | 0.5 | 5.75 | $633 |   $0 |   $0 | 93 | 535 |   $0 |   $0 | $58,838 | 
Performance test reports (initial/repeat and annual compliance) | 0.0 | 0.5 | 0.1 | 0.575 | $63 |   $0 |   $0 | 93 | 53 |   $0 |   $0 | $5,884 | 
Familiarize with CEDRI: existing source | 0.1 | 2.0 | 0.2 | 2.3 | $253 |   $0 |   $0 | 93 | 214 |   $0 |   $0 | $23,535 | 
Familiarize with CEDRI: new source | 0.2 | 4.0 | 0.4 | 4.6 | $506 |   $0 |   $0 | 1 | 5 |   $0 |   $0 | $506 | 
Electronic data submittal (and savings from submitting paper reports) | 0.1 | 1.5 | 0.2 | 1.725 | $190 |   $0 | -$40 | 93 | 160 |   $0 | -$3,710 | $17,651 | 
Reviewing and revising O&M plans | 0.6 | 12.0 | 1.2 | 13.8 | $1,518 |   $0 |   $0 | 93 | 1,283 |   $0 |   $0 | $141,210 | 
Subtotal for e-reporting | 1.5 | 29.0 | 2.9 | 33.35 | $3,669 |   |   |   | 2,395 |   $0 |   -$3,710 | $263,483 | 
3.  Removals and Cost Reductions |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 
Removal of PM CEMS capital and O&M costs from 1 new source a |   |   |   | 0 | $0 | -$158,000 | -$34,165 | 1 | 0 | -$158,000 | -$34,165 | $0 | 
Removal of PM CEMS labor for existing sources a | -2.0 | -16.1 | -2.0 | -20.1 | -$2,235 | $0 | -$8 | 12 | -242 | $0 | -$96 | -$26,958 | 
Subtotal for Removals and Cost Reductions | -2.0 | -16.1 | -2.0 | -20.1 | -$2,235 | -$158,000 | -$34,173 |   | -242 | -$158,000 | -$34,261 | -$26,958 | 
TOTAL CATEGORY BURDEN AND COSTS | -0.6 | 22.4 | 0.9 | 22.7 | $2,517 |   |   |   | 2,416 | -$158,000 | -$ 21,971 | $266,665 | 
TOTAL LABOR BURDEN AND COSTS  (ROUNDED) b |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 2,416 |   |   | $26 7 , 000 | 
TOTAL CAPITAL AND O&M COST  (ROUNDED) b |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | -$1 80 , 000 | 
GRAND TOTAL (ROUNDED)  b |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | $ 86 , 7 00 | 
aCosts are from the currently ICR (EPA ICR No. 1773.13) which would no longer be applicable due to proposed amendments.
bTotals have been rounded to 3 significant figures. Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.
Table 2: Average Annual EPA Burden and Cost – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments)
Information Collection Activity | Person Hours Per Year  (by Labor Category) | Total Person Hours Per Respondent | Total Labor Cost Per Respondent | Capital/ Startup Costs | O&M (Mailing) Costs | Total Hours and Costs
 | Management $78.22 | Technical $58.05 | Clerical $31.41 |  |  |  |  | # of Respondents a | Total Labor Hours | Total Labor Costs | Total O&M (Mailing) Costs | Total Costs
1.  New Standard Requirements |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  
HF Work Practice |   | 0  |   | 0.0 | $0 | $0 | $0 | 43  | 0.0 | $0 | $0 | $0
HF Performance Test | 0.025  | 0.5  | 0.05  | 0.6 | $3 3 | $0 | $0 | 1  | 0.6 | $33 | $0 | $33
HCN Performance Test | 0.025  | 0.5  | 0.05  | 0.6 | $3 3 | $0 | $0 | 13  | 7.5 | $423 | $0 | $423
2.  Removals and Cost Reductions |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  
Removal of PM CEMS from existing sources c | -0.5  | -10  | -0.25  | -10.8 | -$627 | $0 | - $ 1  | 12 | -129.7 | -$7,568 | -$12 | -$7,580
TOTAL ANNUAL BURDEN AND COST |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | -122 | -$7,112 | -$12 | -$7,124
aThe total number of respondents each year is calculated as 1/3 of the total number of respondents
b Labor cost is based on the following hourly labor rates times a 1.6 benefits multiplication factor to account for government overhead expenses: $78.22 for Managerial (GS-13, Step 5, $48.89 x 1.6), $58.05 for Technical (GS-12, Step 1, $36.28 x 1.6) and $31.41 Clerical (GS-6, Step 3, $19.63 x 1.6).  These rates are from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), 2025 General Schedule, which excludes locality rates of pay.
Table 3: Burden Change Between Previously Approved and Proposed ICR – Hazardous Waste Combustor NESHAP (40 CFR Part 63, Subpart EEE) (Proposed Amendments)
 | Previously Approved ICR | Change by This Action | ICR After Change
Respondents (Number of HWC Units) | 170 | (5) | 165
Number of Annual Responses | 1,467 | 80 | 1,547
Annual Time Burden (Hours) | 59,100 | 2,420 | 61,520
Annual Capital/O&M Cost Burden (Dollars) | 2,770,000 | (180,000) | 2,590,000
