PART word/document.xml

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.  (Annotate the CFR parts/sections affected).

The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is collecting this information to meet the requirements of section 225, Division A, of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, Pub.  L. 116-6, 133 Stat. 13 (Feb. 15, 2019), as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Section 223, Division F, Pub. L. 116-260, Div. F, 134 Stat. 1459 (Dec. 27, 2020), and as amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023,  Section 222, Division F, Pub. L. 117-328 (Dec. 29. 2022) (Section 225). Under this provision, TSA may establish a pilot for public or private entities regulated by TSA to request reimbursable screening services outside of an existing primary passenger terminal screening area where screening services are currently provided or eligible to be provided under TSA’s annually appropriated passenger screening program.  For purposes of Section 225, “screening services” means “the screening of passengers, flight crews, and their carry-on baggage and personal articles, and may include checked baggage screening if that type of screening is performed at an offsite location that is not part of a passenger terminal of a commercial airport.”  Section 225 requires TSA to ensure that the proposed security screening services:

•Do not reduce the security or efficiency of screening services already provided in primary passenger terminals at an impacted airport;
•Do not represent any health of safety concerns;
•Demonstrate the entity’s financial ability to support the request;
•Have the support of impacted local and regional stakeholders;
•Can be implemented by TSA in a timely manner; and
•Do not pose a negative impact to other government agencies and/or state and local governments.

The statute authorizes this pilot to occur effective for fiscal years 2019 through 2025 and currently may be used at not more than eight locations for transportation security purposes.  TSA developed the Reimbursable Screening Services Program (RSSP) pilot as a process for public and private entities regulated by TSA to request screening services pursuant to this authority. TSA will collect information from these entities as part of a process to determine RSSP pilot locations. 

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

Public or private entities regulated by TSA interested in participating in the RSSP may submit a request to the TSA Administrator for TSA to provide screening services as defined in Section 225.  The request may only be submitted to TSA after consultation with the relevant local airport authority.  The request is used to identify basic information that TSA will assess for determining whether to grant approval to participate in the RSSP pilot.

TSA will acknowledge receipt of the request, review for completeness, and provide an official response granting approval or denying the request.  If the request is approved by TSA, TSA will enter into agreements with the regulated entity, under which the requesting entity agrees in writing to the scope of the screening services to be provided and agrees to compensate TSA for all reasonable personnel and non-personnel costs, including overtime, of providing the screening services.  The collection also allows for amendments to the RSSP by request of a regulated entity.

TSA is revising the title of OMB control number 1652-0073 from “TSA Reimbursable Screening Services Program Request” to “TSA Reimbursable Screening Services Program Pilot Request” to more accurately represent the information collection.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.]

In compliance with GPEA, an entity wishing to submit a request to participate in the program must adhere to the TSA Request for Screening Services Guidance to Industry document, which provides instructions for completing the TSA provided form and a detailed proposed Concept of Operations.  Requestors will be directed to the RSSP office at TSA.RSSP@tsa.dhs.gov.  This process directly supports the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA).  

Usability Study Requirement:
TSA completed a usability study on the questions to determine readability and clarity. A total of four participants were selected to participate in the RSSP usability study.  Three of the participants were unfamiliar with the RSSP, while one was an experienced reviewer of RSSP applications.  The participants new to RSSP asked for clarification on some of the questions.  TSA found that clarification was needed due to the participants’ lack of background or technical experience with RSSP.  For example, TSA had to explain the meaning of corporate bylaws, listed in the first question.  The participant with experience with RSSP did not require any clarification.  All participants completed the form within 12 minutes, and reported that the questions were presented in a logical and clear manner.  Two participants recommended style changes for the wording of the instructions.  Those without knowledge of RSSP recommended a few of the questions be combined, resulting in less questions.  The experienced participant had no concerns with the existing questions but recommended additional questions.  TSA examined the recommendations and found that decreasing the number of questions by combining them may cause respondents to fail to provide key information.  As to adding more questions, TSA found that the Concept of Operations would cover those questions.   

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

There is no similar information already held by TSA that could be used for the purpose of regulated entities submitting requests to denote their interests in the program.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize burden.

This collection does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

If this collection were not conducted, TSA would be unable to consider and evaluate requests by regulated entities to participate in the RSSP, and thus be precluded from meeting the requirements of Section 225.  

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

This information collection is conducted in a manner consistent with the general information guidelines. 

Describe efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

TSA published two Federal Register notices with a 60-day and a 30-day comment period, soliciting comments on the information collection.  See 87 FR 36868 (June 21, 2022) and 88 FR 1601 (January 11, 2023).  

TSA received a comment in response to the 60-day notice from the Chief Operating Officer of the Metropolitan Airports Commission indicating strong support for the extension of TSA’s data collection authority pursuant to Information Collection Request (ICR) OMB Control number 1652-0073 in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act.  TSA acknowledges that the data collection is critical to the TSA’s effective implementation and administration of the RSSP pilot in a manner that is responsive to the reality of the unique security screening needs to serve the public and transparency of the program with affected airports.  The RSSP office has several information outlets available to the general public, to include the TSA.gov Industry SharePoint site (https://www.tsa.gov/for-industry/reimbursable-screening-services-program), the Public Affairs Guidance maintained by the TSA Strategic Communications and Public Affairs office, and the RSSP Annual Performance Report submitted to the U.S. Congress.  The RSSP Program Manager will continue to collect and to report data to all of the TSA information streams to illustrate the impact of current and potentially future participation. 

The agency received no comments in response to the 30-day notice.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

TSA will not provide any payment or gift to respondents.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

While there are no assurances of confidentiality provided, this information collection falls under the DHS Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), DHS/ALL/PIA-006, DHS General Contacts List. (June 15, 2007).

Provide additional justification for any questions of sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

TSA does not ask any questions of a sensitive nature.

Provide estimates of hour and cost burdens of the collection of information.

In this estimate, TSA describes the respondent population and then presents a summary of the information collection covered by this ICR.

The likely respondents to this proposed information collection request are public or private entities regulated by TSA requesting the screening services at an airport that is a commercial service airport (as defined by 49 U.S.C. 47107(7)).

REQUESTS
Respondents seeking to participate in the RSSP must send TSA a request for consideration.  TSA estimates an average annual number of RSSP respondents to be 15.  TSA estimates that each RSSP Request requires thirty-two (32) hours to complete, resulting in an annual hour burden of 480 hours. TSA assumes RSSP Requests are completed by an airport security coordinator with a fully-loaded hourly wage rate of $97.20, for an annual hour burden cost of $46,656.15. Table 1 summarizes these estimates.

Table 1. Hour Burden and Costs for  RSSP   Request s
Annual Number of  Requests | Hour Burden per  Requests | Total Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $97. 20
1 5 | 32 | 480 | $ 46,656 .15

AMENDMENTS
TSA will process amendments to the RSSP by request of a regulated entity.  TSA estimates it will receive one and a half amendments (specifically, the expected probability of 10% of applicants will make amendments per year).  TSA assumes the full-loaded hourly wage rate of $97.20 for airport operator security coordinators.  TSA estimates each requested amendment will place an 8-hour burden on a regulated entity, for an average annual hour burden of 12 hours and an average annual hour burden cost of $1166.40.  Table 2 summarizes these estimates.

Table 2 . Hour Burden and Costs for  RSSP   Amendments
Annual Number of  Amendments Submitted | H our Burden per Amendment | Total Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $97. 20
1 .5 | 8 | 12 | $1,166.40

Total Hour Burdens and Costs for RSSP Respondents
TSA estimates that the average annual hour burden for respondents to participate in this program is 492 hours, which corresponds to an annual hour burden cost of $47,822.56.

Table 3 .  Total  Hour Burden and Costs for  RSSP   Requests  and Amendments
Annual Number of  Responses | Total  H our Burden per Collection | Total Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $97. 20
1 5 | 32 | 480 | $ 46,656 .15
1 .5 | 8 | 12 | $1,166.40
1 6.5 |  | 492 | $47,822.56


Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the collection of information.

There are no annualized capital and start-up costs for this collection.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

To administer this program, TSA estimates an annual hour burden of 2790 hours and a total annual hour cost of $268,086.71 to the Federal Government.

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

Since the previous OMB approval, the hour burden has changed from 104 to 492 hours annually.  The burden increased due to the change in the respondents requests from 12 to 15 and the adjustment of the estimated time burden from 8 to 32 hours, using actual data numbers provided by the program office.  

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

TSA will not publish the results of this collection.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

TSA is not seeking such approval.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

TSA is not seeking any exceptions to the certification statement as the information gathered for the request meets the criteria for 5 CFR 1320.9.

PART word/footnotes.xml


 Section 223, Division F, Pub. L. No. 116-260, Div. F, 134 Stat. 1459 (Dec. 27, 2020) amended section 225, subsection (e) by striking ‘‘2021’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
 Section 222, Division F, Pub. L. 117-328 (Dec. 29. 2022) amends section 225, subsection (e) by striking ‘‘2023’’ and inserting ‘‘2025’’. 

 A fully-loaded wage rate includes non-salary costs of employer cost of employee compensation, such as health and retirement benefits.
 The unloaded wage rate for a General and Operations Manager is $65.15. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). May 2021 National Industry-Specific Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates. NAICS 481000 - Air Transportation. OCC 11-1021 General and Operations Manager. Last modified March 31, 2022 (accessed April 01, 2022), https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/naics3_481000.htm.  TSA calculates a load factor for a civilian employee working in Production, Transportation and Material Moving using October - December 2021 quarter to account for non-wage compensation.  TSA calculates this factor by dividing the December 2021 total compensation ($32.42) by the wage and salary component ($21.73), to get a load factor of 1.492.  BLS, News Release, Employer Costs for Employee Compensation - Dec '21.  Table 2. Employer Costs for Employee Compensation for civilian workers by occupational and industry group. Production, transportation, and material moving.  Last modified March 22, 2022 (accessed April 01, 2022), https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_03182022.pdf.  The fully-loaded wage rate is calculated by multiplying the unloaded wage rate by the load factor. $97.20= $65.15 x 1.492.
 TSA estimates that 10 percent of the program’s respondents will submit an amendment, in any given year.