PART word/document.xml
Department of Transportation
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

 Quantitative Data on Safety Belt Usage of Commercial Motor Vehicle Drivers 
OMB Control No. 2126-00XX


SUMMARY 
This is a new ICR. 
There are 3 information collection (IC) instruments: IC-1: Pre-testing survey instrument; IC-2: Piloting the survey; and IC-3: Self-administered survey.
There is a total of 1060 respondents and 176.65 burden hours.


INTRODUCTION

This is to request the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) Clearance for the Collection of Quantitative Data. 

Part A. Justification

CIRCUMSTANCES THAT MAKE THE COLLECTION OF INFORMATION NECESSARY

In order to conduct education and public information marketing campaigns related to the importance of safety belt usage among commercial motor vehicle (CMV) drivers, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) will conduct research and use a variety of media to inform and educate CMV drivers and secondary audiences who could influence drivers about the risks of not wearing a safety belt, myths about safety belts, and FMCSA’s role in regulating safety belt usage in the CMV industry. 

The last research FMCSA conducted on CMV driver attitudes about safety belt usage was completed in 2018, and since the COVID-19 pandemic, habits have changed. Additionally, this 2018 research focused only on the observation of truck drivers while operating a vehicle; it did not capture driver attitudes and did not encompass other CMV drivers. To ensure that FMCSA’s educational and public information programs have the highest potential to be received, understood, and accepted by their intended audiences, FMCSA will conduct quantitative research that will capture attitudes about safety belt usage across different CMV drivers. FMCSA seeks to understand the differences between varying demographic profiles of CMV drivers and their attitudes and beliefs toward safety belt usage by means of this survey effort. FMCSA will conduct this research on the CMV Safety Belt Use Outreach Campaign program through its contractor, DCG Communications (DCG).

Title 49 U.S.C. 113 establishes FMCSA as an administration of the Department of Transportation with safety as its highest priority. FMCSA is tasked with considering the assignment and maintenance of safety as the highest priority, recognizing the clear intent, encouragement, and dedication of Congress to the furtherance of the highest degree of safety in motor carrier transportation.

FMCSA’s mission is to save lives and reduce crashes and injuries by advancing large truck and bus safety through collaboration, education, research, technology, and compliance. The proposed data collection aligns with FMCSA’s mission statement by providing additional insights into CMV drivers’ attitudes and perceptions regarding safety belt usage. No legal or administrative requirements necessitate collection. 
HOW, BY WHOM, AND FOR WHAT PURPOSE IS THE INFORMATION USED 

Under this clearance, FMCSA plans to use quantitative data collection techniques through a self-administered online survey to understand CMV drivers’ perceptions and behaviors regarding safety belt usage and road safety. Existing data on the usage of safety belts and perceptions related to road safety does not capture the diversity of different types of CMV drivers in a post-pandemic landscape. Understanding safety belt usage and perceptions of road safety among CMV drivers will assist FMCSA in gauging emerging trends among this cohort and will inform future messaging and communication efforts targeting CMV drivers. 

Respondents will be selected randomly through the online panel provider Centiment, which comprises large population segments. Although the panel does not have information on the number of CMV drivers that exist in the panel, several studies that Centiment facilitated for logistics and shipping companies yielded between 3,000-8,000 completed responses. During data collection, CMV drivers will be identified by self-reporting their professions as active CMV drivers.

The information collected will add to the understanding of current CMV driver attitudes toward safety belt usage by drivers. The information may help FMCSA understand gaps in knowledge and attitudes about safety belt usage, as well as behaviors and behavioral intentions for safety belt usage. This information can help to inform communication directed at CMV drivers. Further, quantitative research can give FMCSA information about the perceived effectiveness and reactions to messages, advertisements, and materials in reaching and successfully communicating with consumers. 

EXTENT OF AUTOMATED INFORMATION COLLECTION 
FMCSA will use a self-administered online survey to collect quantitative data. Using an online platform to transmit data collection instruments and/or collect responses will continue to reduce the burden on respondents. For example, respondents can access and respond to data collection requests at a time and place that is convenient to them, eliminating the need to travel for survey administration. For participating in this study, 100% of respondents will respond electronically to the information gathered in the survey. 

EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY DUPLICATION
FMCSA will conduct only one research study and has reviewed the existing literature and databases. In addition, FMCSA consulted with experts within the agency, including field and national office staff and partner organizations, to get their thoughts on CMV driver safety belt usage and a potential survey. 

The data collected by FMCSA is unique, and no recent, similar data are gathered or maintained by FMCSA or are available from other sources known to FMCSA.

EFFORTS TO MINIMIZE THE BURDEN ON SMALL BUSINESSES
Small businesses or other small entities may be involved in efforts related to information collection approved under this clearance. However, FMCSA will minimize the effect and burden on them by sampling to a panel where participants have already agreed to be sent survey invitations.

IMPACT OF LESS FREQUENT COLLECTION OF INFORMATION

The last survey conducted by FMCSA on CMV driver safety belt usage was pre-pandemic and found that 14% of CMV drivers do not wear their safety belts. FMCSA’s primary mission is to prevent CMV-related fatalities and injuries. By updating the understanding of who CMV drivers are and their attitudes toward safety belt usage, FMCSA can more accurately inform and educate them on the importance of safety belts. Without quantitative testing and data collection, FMCSA cannot fully ensure that safety belt messaging is directed at the appropriate CMV drivers and serves its intended purpose. As a result, FMCSA could spend a large amount of money on ineffective communications to achieve the intended purpose of increasing safety belt usage. 

SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES  

Not Applicable to this survey. 

COMPLIANCE WITH 5 CFR 1320.8:  
FMCSA published a 60-day notice in the Federal Register on June 13, 2024 (89 FR 50402). Four public comments were received in response to the 60-day notice.

FMCSA received four public comments in response to the 60-day notice regarding the proposed survey on safety belt usage by commercial motor vehicle drivers. Three comments provided personal perspectives on safety belt use and broader reflections on safety belt mandates. One comment questioned the need and cost of the survey and whether a federal law on safety belt usage is intended because of the survey’s proposed data collection.

In reply to this comment, the data collected in the proposed survey will help FMCSA identify attitudes and behaviors related to safety belt usage among commercial motor vehicle drivers. The data gained from this undertaking will inform targeted communication strategies directed at commercial motor vehicle drivers related to safety belt use compliance. FMCSA develops and enforces regulations to ensure safety on the nation's highways but does not have the authority to create federal laws. The proposed study’s overall cost is less than thirty-six thousand dollars.

PAYMENTS OR GIFTS TO RESPONDENTS
No payments or gifts will be provided to respondents. 


ASSURANCE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
In developing this study, FMCSA consulted the agency Privacy Officer to identify potential risks to the privacy of participants and other individuals whose information may be handled by or on behalf of FMCSA in the performance of this study. FMCSA will collect no PII to minimize privacy risk.  

Privacy Act Applicability
The information collected is not subject to the Privacy Act of 1974. Hence, no Privacy Act Statement is required to be displayed on the survey website.

PII Collection
PII will not be collected for this survey. 

JUSTIFICATION FOR COLLECTION OF SENSITIVE INFORMATION 

Not applicable. FMCSA will not collect sensitive information via this survey. 

12. ESTIMATE OF BURDEN HOURS FOR INFORMATION REQUESTED
Table 1. provides an estimate of anticipated burden levels that may be incurred during the survey. Participation in the survey is voluntary, and participants can participate in the survey at any time once an initial invitation message is sent to potential respondents.

Table 1. – Estimated Annual Reporting Burden

Category of Respondent  | No. of Respondents | Participation Time (minutes) | Burden (hours)
IC-1: Pre-testing survey instrument | 10 | 10  | 1.66 
IC-2: Piloting the survey | 50 | 10  | 8.33 
IC-3: Self-administered survey | 1,000 | 10 | 166.66
Totals | 1,060 | 10  | 176.65 
 |  |  | 
Average Mean Hourly Wage - $21.92 |  |  | $3,872.17


ESTIMATE OF TOTAL ANNUAL COSTS TO RESPONDENTS
There are no capital, start-up, operating, or maintenance costs associated with this information collection.

ESTIMATE OF COST TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
As part of a larger contract, FMCSA funded a contractor $35,950.25 to conduct the survey during the base year of the contract. Table 2. shows the full annual breakdown of the contract. There are no capital costs or operating and maintenance costs associated with this collection of information.
Table 2. – FMCSA CMV Outreach Contract Base Year Breakdown

Item Number | Service Supplied | Amount
001 | Develop and implement CMV Safety Belt Use Campaign | $159,390.98
002 | Execute, monitor, and measure the 2023 Outreach Campaign | $94,306.14
003 | Develop innovative marketing and communication assets for the 2024 campaign | $85,263.16
004 | Media Costs | $210,000.00
005 | Other Direct Costs | $64,500.00
006 | Travel | $500.00
007 | Conduct Safety Belt Usage Survey | $35,950.25
Total |  | $649,910.53


EXPLANATION OF PROGRAM CHANGES OR ADJUSTMENTS
Not Applicable

PUBLICATION OF RESULTS OF DATA COLLECTION
Not Applicable. The results will inform outreach campaigns and Freedom of Information Act requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

APPROVAL FOR NOT DISPLAYING THE EXPIRATION DATE OF OMB APPROVAL

No such approval is being requested.

EXCEPTIONS TO CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
None. 
