PART word/document.xml
Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statue and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.  (Annotate the CFR parts/sections affected.)

The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is committed to being attentive and responsive to the experiences of its customers, particularly the flying public, as the agency performs it mission to ensure the security of our Nation’s commercial aviation system.  Over the past few years, Congress agreed with TSA on the importance of assessing customer satisfaction.  In support of this effort, TSA plans to continue conducting passenger surveys at airports nationwide.  Before each survey collection at an airport, TSA personnel decide whether the survey will be administered using an intercept methodology or a systematic sampling methodology.  The intercept methodology randomly selects times and checkpoints to invite passengers to complete the survey in an effort to gain survey data representative of all passenger demographics.  Under the systematic sampling methodology, the data collection team will approach a subset of passengers in fixed intervals (e.g., every tenth passenger) and invite those passengers to complete the survey.  Under either methodology, TSA personnel (not in uniform) hand-deliver business card-style forms to passengers immediately following their experience with the TSA’s checkpoint security functions.

Passengers are invited, though not required, to complete and return the survey by: (1) using their own electronic devices to access a web-based portal; (2) responding to TSA personnel capturing verbal responses to the survey using portable electronic devices connected to the same web-based portal; or (3) responding in writing to the survey questions on the customer satisfaction card and depositing the card in a drop-box at the airport or using U.S. mail.

In furtherance of this effort, TSA wants to continue to use surveys to measure quality and customer satisfaction and confidence with TSA’s aviation security procedures.  This effort is consistent with the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-352, 124 Stat. 3866, 3870 (January 4, 2011), which requires a “customer service measure” to be an assessment of service delivery to a customer, client, citizen, or other recipient, which can include an assessment of quality, timeliness, and satisfaction among other factors.

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

This passenger survey represents an important part of TSA’s efforts to collect data on customer satisfaction.  We propose to continue conducting passenger surveys to gauge customer satisfaction and confidence with TSA’s aviation security procedures.  The objective is to capture individuals’ experiences with the passenger security checkpoint.

Current Survey Content

TSA developed the passenger survey at the airport-level to acquire customer satisfaction data in an effort to more efficiently manage its airport security screening performance.  A discussion of the survey methodology and statistical analysis is contained in the Supporting Statement at Part B of this application.  Using lessons learned from previous survey efforts described below, TSA developed the current customer surveys as described below.

TSA developed a list of questions for the survey to allow for evaluation of key performance elements of TSA’s mission delivery, providing managers with tangible prescriptions for performance improvement, and coinciding with the areas of service that are perceived most relevant to passengers.

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has previously approved 82 possible questions, from which TSA uses 10 to 15 on each survey.  TSA is requesting an extension of the approval for the information collection.  The first 10 questions are standard on every survey at every airport where TSA is conducting the survey.  The TSA Federal Security Director (FSD) at each participating airport has the option to select up to five additional questions from the OMB-approved question list.  The five additional questions that an FSD can add to the standard 10-question survey are meant to provide individual airports with the most relevant information for their environment.  For example, relevant information for the environment may deal with wait times at airports with historically long wait times, with checked baggage screening at airports with checked baggage screening processes that involve customer interaction, or with Innovation Lanes.  All questions on the survey promote a quality response so TSA can identify areas in need of improvement.  FSDs may seek guidance from Headquarters about sampling and survey distribution, and are given limits on the individual and cumulative burden on passengers that they are allowed to impose each year.

Use of Survey Results

TSA uses the survey results to measure performance and gauge customer satisfaction and confidence with TSA’s aviation security procedures.  TSA uses survey results as a basis for changes or improvements of current policies and operations, as well as for personnel-related issues, including: (1) to support industrial-engineering studies (such as by conducting a survey with several questions about passenger wait and service times to evaluate a change in the checkpoint configuration), or (2) to evaluate process changes (such as to evaluate responses to a localized media campaign or other public-relations effort or a reduction in staffing at an airport).  More detailed examples of these uses are discussed below.

TSA will also conduct statistical analysis of the results to determine how different areas correlate to overall satisfaction and confidence.  TSA will only compare airports based on results from the 10 standard survey questions.  Responses from the five, FSD-chosen questions will be for airport information only and will not be used to draw statistical conclusions about national-level trends in customer satisfaction; however, statistical analysis may be performed on the FSD-chosen question responses at the level of individual airports to provide FSDs with additional information about customer satisfaction at their airports specifically.  Results from the statistical analysis of FSD-chosen questions will not be interpreted as representative of national-level trends.

TSA uses the results to assess its performance with various components related to customer satisfaction and confidence.  In particular, it measures passenger perceptions of the courtesy and professionalism of Transportation Security Officers (TSO), wait times, thoroughness of screening, and overall satisfaction.  The results of these aspects are examined at the aggregate and airport levels, and examined across time.  TSA identifies factors and best practices contributing to higher scores and assesses ways to implement those into operational policies and procedures.

TSA uses the survey results to improve TSO training to include new or updated customer service related themes.  The survey results are also used to evaluate the effect of policy and procedural changes as they relate to customer satisfaction and confidence.  In December 2005, TSA changed some of its screening procedures.  TSA used the survey results, along with other data, to evaluate customers’ perceptions of these procedural changes and to modify the implementation of these procedures to increase customer satisfaction while maintaining security.  Further, TSA uses the survey results to measure the effectiveness of specific programs at reaching the customer base, such as how well TSA communicates with customers using airport signage.  For example, survey results have been used to increase use of airport signage because the results indicated signage is an effective means of communicating critical information to passengers and superior to other means, such as public service announcements or printed informational pamphlets.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.]

Passengers are invited, though not required, to complete and return the survey using either an online portal or by responding in writing to the survey questions on the customer satisfaction card and depositing the card in a drop-box at the airport or using U.S. mail.  For passengers opting to complete the survey via a web-based portal, TSA personnel may offer to assist the passengers by reading the questions to the passengers and allowing the passengers to dictate a response to the TSA personnel.  In this case, the TSA personnel record the passengers’ verbal responses using portable electronic devices connected to the same web-based portal that passengers would use if they entered their responses manually on their own electronic devices.  Responses will be stored and available for possible reporting measures.  The online portal for retaining responses and providing reports supports the initiatives of the Government Paperwork Reduction Act (GPEA).

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

Some airport administrations (either local Government or private entities) may conduct customer surveys at airports.  TSA does not consider these efforts to be duplicative because they do not specifically address the aspects of TSA performance that the TSA survey will include.  We share data with those airport operators conducting their own surveys to the fullest extent possible and seek to include questions on their instruments to reduce overall public burden through the efforts of individual FSDs.

These collections differ from the TSA customer comment card, which is designed to give individual airports frequent customer-initiated feedback.  The TSA customer comment card is a vehicle for gathering daily feedback at individual airports from passengers who approach TSA personnel at airports to initiate complaints and compliments.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize burden.

The proposed survey has no impact on small businesses.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

The collection of data via surveys is essential for TSA to understand its impact on the flying public, and to be able to respond to that impact by improving service, reducing burden on travelers, and improving communication.  Given the Congressional mandates to collect this data, it is crucial to TSA’s mission to secure the commercial aviation system while maintaining the highest customer service standards.  Moreover, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and OMB have concurred with TSA on the importance of this element of our performance measurement system.  The results from the survey may be used for annual performance measurement at the surveyed airports, as well as system-wide.  The results from the 10 standard questions drawn from the OMB-approved list are statistically significant and can be used to draw conclusions about the traveling population as a whole, such as customer satisfaction and confidence levels.

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

There are no circumstances that require the information to be conducted in a manner that is inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

Describe efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

TSA published in the Federal Register a 60-day notice for public comment on July 6, 2018 (83 FR 31561) and a 30-day notice on December 5, 2018 (83 FR 62877).  Consistent with the requirements of Executive Order (E.O.) 13771, Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs, and E.O. 13777, Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda, the notices included a specific request for comments on the extent to which this request for information could be modified to reduce the burden on respondents.  TSA has received no comments in response to the notices.

TSA collaborated with experts familiar with statistical intercept survey techniques in order to develop the methodology for the formal survey.  TSA also engaged a contractor to support its performance measurement efforts since our inception.  The contractor helped TSA define the survey.  Details about and rationale for our sampling and survey distribution methodology are provided in Supporting Statement Part B.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

TSA will not provide any payment or gift to survey respondents.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

Survey forms will be anonymous; TSA will not solicit specific identifying information.  Thus, by design, the survey will ensure confidentiality through anonymity.

Provide additional justification for any questions of sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

We propose to ask no such questions.

Provide estimates of hour and cost burden of the collection of information.

TSA personnel have the capability to conduct this survey at 25 airports each year using an intercept methodology or a systematic sampling methodology.  Both methodologies involve handing out a business card style form containing the survey questions to passengers right after they pass through the security checkpoint.  The form also contains a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), or web address, for the website containing the survey questionnaire.  All passengers receiving the form are requested either to complete the survey questions online at their time of convenience, respond to TSA personnel capturing verbal responses to the survey in real time on portable on-line devices, or respond to the survey in writing and deposit the form in a drop-box located at each airport or mail in the form using U.S. mail.  TSA personnel, such as non-uniformed TSOs, distribute the survey to passengers who pass by a fixed point just inside the security checkpoint.

Based on the data provided by TSA’s Security Operations, TSA estimates that the average annual number of respondents to this information collection process is 9,600.  This results in an average of 9,600 annual responses.  TSA also estimates that the estimated time burden is 5 minutes per survey for a total annual burden incurred of 800 hours.  The total annual hour burden cost of this information collection is estimated to be $40,592.  The detailed information on these estimates are presented below.

Calculations:

(a) Sample size and number of respondents:

Based on the non-response rates from prior surveys, TSA assumes that a total of 1,000 surveys need to be distributed to get approximately 384 responses from passengers, which is a sample size required to produce statistically significant results that can be generalized to the population of aviation passengers.  TSA also estimates that 25 airports will conduct the survey each year.  The average annual number of respondents is calculated by multiplying the number of passengers who are expected to complete the survey by the number of airports conducting the survey.

Average number of respondents = 384 passengers x 25 airports = 9,600 per year

Since each selected respondent completes only one survey, the total annual number of responses is 9,600.

(b) Hour burden and cost calculations:

The survey contains 10 to 15 questions.  TSA assumes that it takes approximately 5 minutes (0.083 hours) for each respondent to complete the survey, either online or by writing in the form.  TSA uses an estimated wage rate of $50.74 for a U.S. air traveler as an approximate wage rate for all travelers.  To estimate the cost associated with the time burden, TSA multiplies the estimated wage rate of $50.74 by the hour burden for each responses.

Hour burden = 9,600 responses x 0.083 hours = 800 hours per year
Hour burden cost = 800 hours x $50.74  = $40,592 per year

Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the collection of information.

Based on information provided by Security Operations, TSA assumes that while only one percent of passengers choose to mail in the completed survey forms using the U.S. mail, the rest of passengers use the online portal to complete the survey questions.  TSA estimates the postage cost for this one percent of respondents, in addition to the hour cost burden discussed above for this information collection.  For this estimation, TSA assumes that each respondent drops the survey form at his or her residential mailbox and incurs only $0.34 for a standard-sized postcard stamp.

Average number of respondents mailing in survey forms 
= (384 passengers x 1%) x 25 airports = 96 per year
Postage cost = 96 passengers x $0.34 = $32.64 per year

 Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

Based on the data provided by Security Operations, TSA estimates that the total annual cost incurred by the Federal Government is $5,623 for this information collection.

Calculations: 

Since this is a renewal of the existing information collection process, TSA does not incur additional costs on research and development, and contractor and technology support.  The cost components for this information collection are related to administering the survey, analyzing the survey data and producing reports.

(a) Administering the survey:

Non-uniformed TSOs, or other designated TSA personnel, distribute the survey to passengers who pass by their fixed-point inside the security checkpoint.  On average, 3 TSOs in each airport are involved in the survey and each is required to take a 15-minute (0.25 hours) training on the procedure of the survey.  TSA estimates that it takes approximately 3 hours and 20 minutes (3.33 hours) to distribute the survey forms to 1000 passengers in each airport.  To calculate the cost of administering the survey, TSA uses the fully-loaded average hourly wage rate of $29.32 for TSOs.

Training cost = 3 TSOs x 25 airports x 0.25 hours x $29.32 = $2,199 per year
Cost of distributing the survey = 3.33 hours x 25 airports x $29.32 = $2,443 per year

(b) Analyzing the survey data and producing reports:

TSA assumes that J-band TSA employees analyze the survey data and produce reports.  TSA estimates it takes an average of 16 hours to analyze the survey data and produce reports.  To estimate the cost of analyzing the data and producing reports, TSA uses the fully-loaded average hourly wage of $61.30 for J-band TSA employees.

Cost of analysis and producing reports = 16 hours x $61.30 = $981 per year
Total government cost of conducting the survey = $5,623 ($2,199 + $2,443 + $981)

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

The cost to the federal government has decreased as this renewal does not include the research and development or contractor and technology support from the initial request.  The cost components for this information collection are related to administering the survey, analyzing the survey data, and producing reports.  Thus, the cost since the last filing of the  Information Collection Request (ICR) with OMB has changed from $400,000 to $5,623.

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

Public and congressional interest in TSA’s performance in providing excellent customer service is high, and the results of these collections will be of great interest to many parties.  There is the potential for TSA to share the survey results externally.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

N/A

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

N/A

PART word/footnotes.xml



 Innovation lanes speed up wait times at security checkpoints.  An automated bin system keeps empty bins circulating and routes bins that alarm the system to a separate area for inspection, ensuring an ongoing flow of people and bins.
 
  In all calculations, totals may not add due to rounding.
 TSA’s Security Operations provided the time burden.
 Source: The estimated wage for U.S. airline travelers is $50.74 in 2015 dollars.  DOT memorandum, Revised Departmental Guidance on Valuation of Travel Time in Economic Analysis, provided the estimate of $47.53 in 2011 dollars, https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/docs/vot_guidance_092811c_0.pdf.  The 2011 estimate was adjusted using the 2011 and 2015 U.S. Gross Domestic Product Implicit Price Deflators (110.290/103.311) * $47.53 = $50.74.  U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.  Table 1.1.9. Implicit Price Deflators for Gross Domestic Product, http://www.bea.gov/iTable/iTable.cfm?reqid=9&step=3&isuri=1&903=13#reqid=9&step=3&isuri=1&903=13.  Retrieved on March 9, 2016.
 Travelers’ wages may vary by country for international passengers.
 According to TSA Security Operations, none of the passengers use the drop-boxes located at airports to return their completed survey forms.
 Source: https://www.usps.com/business/prices.htm (Accessed on 04/26/2016).
 In all calculations, totals may not add due to rounding.
 Based on previous surveys, TSA estimates that a total of 1000 surveys need to be distributed to get a target sample size of 384 responses.
 Source:  The fully loaded hourly average wage rate of $29.32 is provided by TSA Finance and Administration (FY15-FY16 Compensation and Benefits amounts for Transportation Security Officers).
 Source:  The fully loaded hourly average wage rate of $61.30 is provided by TSA Finance and Administration (FY15-FY16 Compensation and Benefits amounts for Transportation Security Officers).
PART word/endnotes.xml


