PART word/document.xml
SUPPORTING STATEMENT
U.S. Department of Commerce
National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration
NMFS Alaska Region Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) Program
OMB Control No. 0648-0445

SUPPORTING STATEMENT PART A 
Abstract

This is a resubmission, with the final rule, of a request by the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS), Alaska Regional Office, for extension and revision of this currently approved information collection for the NMFS Alaska Region Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) Program. 

NMFS requires owners and operators of selected vessels participating in federally managed groundfish and crab fisheries off Alaska to obtain, install, and maintain an operational, NMFS-approved VMS. Tracking vessel location using VMS is required to monitor compliance with area-specific catch allocations, monitor compliance with requirements to redeploy or remove fishing gear from commercial fishing grounds, and monitor compliance with complicated time and area closures in the Gulf of Alaska and Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands to protect Steller sea lion or essential fish habitat.

This information collection is revised due to the final rule (RIN 0648-BM42) to implement Amendment 16 to the Fishery Management Plan for the Salmon Fisheries in the EEZ Off Alaska. Amendment 16 and the rule establish Federal fishery management for all salmon fishing that occurs in the Cook Inlet Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), which includes commercial drift gillnet and recreational salmon fishery sectors. 

This collection is revised to include vessels commercially fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area that will be required to install and maintain an operational VMS. This increases the number of respondents for this collection.

This rule will also add a new information collection for the Cook Inlet EEZ commercial salmon fishery under new OMB control number 0648-0818. NMFS is submitting a separate request for the new collection. 

No changes were made to the requirements in this collection from the proposed rule to the final rule. 


Justification

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary. Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection. Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.

NMFS Alaska Region manages the groundfish and crab fisheries in the exclusive economic zone of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area (BSAI) and the groundfish fisheries of the Gulf of Alaska (GOA) under fishery management plans (FMPs) for the respective areas. The North Pacific Fishery Management Council prepared, and NMFS approved, the FMPs under the authority of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq., Magnuson-Stevenson Act). The Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982 at 16 U.S.C. 773–773k provides the Secretary of Commerce with the authority and general responsibility to carry out the requirements of the Convention between the United States and Canada for the Preservation of the Halibut Fishery of the North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea. Regulations implementing the FMPs appear at 50 CFR parts 679 and 680.

NMFS requires the owners and operators of selected vessels participating in federally managed groundfish and crab fisheries off Alaska to obtain, install, and maintain an operational, NMFS-approved VMS. Tracking vessel location using VMS is required to monitor compliance with area-specific catch allocations, monitor compliance with requirements to redeploy or remove fishing gear from commercial fishing grounds, and monitor compliance with complicated time and area closures in the GOA and BSAI designed to protect Steller sea lion or essential fish habitat. Table 1 summarizes these VMS requirements by providing information about who must provide vessel location information to NMFS through VMS, references for the regulatory requirements, and a brief explanation of the reason for the VMS requirement.
VMS is an essential component of monitoring and management for complicated, geographically widespread fishing closures. NMFS uses information from VMS to identify where vessels are operating, to organize patrols so as to increase the number of fishing vessels visually examined, or to focus examination of vessels of greatest concern, and as evidence in prosecutions.

NMFS has determined that traditional methods of relying on industry reports, observer reports, and periodic surveillance by the U.S. Coast Guard and NMFS Office for Law Enforcement (NMFS OLE) are not adequate to monitor the complex, overlapping, and numerous closure areas, area-specific allocations to individuals and entities, and other regulatory limitations. These determinations were made through the rulemaking process for the various actions implementing VMS requirements. More information about the background and history of the Alaska Region’s VMS requirements is available on the Alaska Region web site (https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/topic/enforcement#vessel-monitoring) and in the proposed and final rules that implemented these VMS requirements.
Revision Due to Rule (RIN 0648-BM42)
This information collection is revised due to the rule (RIN 0648-BM42) to implement Amendment 16 to the Salmon FMP. Amendment 16 and the rule establish Federal fishery management for all salmon fishing that occurs in the Cook Inlet EEZ, which includes commercial drift gillnet and recreational salmon fishery sectors. This action is necessary to comply with rulings from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska, and to ensure the Salmon FMP is consistent with the Magnuson-Stevens Act. This action implements new recordkeeping, reporting, and compliance requirements necessary for the management and monitoring of the Cook Inlet EEZ Area salmon fishery.

This collection is revised because vessels commercially fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area will be required to install and maintain an operational VMS as described in 50 CFR 679.28(f). The other recordkeeping, reporting, and monitoring requirements implemented by this rule for the Cook Inlet EEZ commercial salmon fishery will be under new OMB control number 0648-0818. NMFS is submitting a separate request for the new collection. 

This rule requires VMS to monitor participation in the Cook Inlet EEZ commercial salmon fishery, to help Federal mangers estimate expected removals from each opening, and to ensure that participants remain within EEZ waters open to fishing. VMS transmits the real-time GPS location of fishing vessels to NMFS. This will help ensure that vessels are not fishing in both State of Alaska (State) and EEZ waters during the same fishing trip, which is prohibited under the rule to improve the accuracy of catch accounting for Federal managers. VMS will also help verify when a vessel may be lawfully transiting through Cook Inlet EEZ Area waters after participating in a State fishery. A vessel with a Salmon Federal Fisheries Permit will be required to keep its VMS active within State waters to ensure that entire fishing trips are monitored and to help verify that no fishing occurred within State waters during a fishing trip that included salmon harvest in the Cook Inlet EEZ. 

During fishing operations, a drift gillnet is not always attached to the vessel and the position of the vessel as determined by VMS may be different than the exact location of the net it deployed. However, because drift gillnet vessels in Cook Inlet remain relatively close to their nets due to the significant tidal currents in the area, VMS data, when combined with logbook information and vessel or aircraft enforcement patrols, provides robust information to determine compliance with Federal fishing area, time, and catch accounting regulations. This approach is also more practicable and cost-efficient to fishery participants than the alternatives of comprehensive electronic monitoring systems or human fishery observers. 

While VMS requirements will increase costs to commercial fishery participants, they are required by NMFS to manage the fishery and prevent overfishing. Specific consideration was given in their development to minimize burden to the extent practicable while also providing required information to Federal fishery managers in a timely manner. All entities that are directly regulated by this action could also choose to continue participating in only the State waters fisheries to avoid being subject to these Federal requirements.

Some vessel operators have already acquired VMS units under existing VMS programs; therefore, these vessels are already included in the number of respondents and responses in this information collection. Federal funds may be available to qualified vessel owners or operators for complete reimbursement of the cost of purchasing type-approved VMS units, which would offset over 75 percent of the total purchase and installation cost for fishery participants.

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used. Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

Table 1 summarizes the VMS requirements by providing information about who must provide vessel location information to NMFS through VMS, references for the regulatory requirements, and a brief explanation of the reason for the VMS requirement. The statues to that apply to all the requirements described below are governed by Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. and The Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982 at 16 U.S.C. 773–773k and are not added to the table. No forms are required for these requirements.

Table 1. VMS Requirements in the Federally Managed Fisheries Off Alaska.
Who is required to carry an operational VMS? | Regulatory reference 50 CFR | Needs and Uses
Vessels that operate in a Federal reporting area when the vessel is authorized to participate in the Atka mackerel, Pacific cod, or pollock directed fisheries and the vessel’s authorized species and gear type is open to directed fishing. These VMS requirements do not apply to vessels using jig gear. | §   679.7(a)(18) , instruction s for Federal Fisheries Permit  application form, and  § 679.28(f)(6)(i) | To monitor compliance with time and area closures to protect Steller Sea lions. 
Vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit   or Federal Crab Vessel Permit while operating in the Aleutian Islands subarea or operating a federally permitted vessel  in adjacent State of Alaska waters. In addition, vessels using trawl gear in the Aleutian Islands must set their VMS to transmit vessel location at least 10 times per hour. | §§  679.7(a)(21) ,  679.28(f)(6)(ii)  and  (f)(6)(ix) ,  679.28(f)(7) | To monitor compliance with area closures to protect Essential Fish Habitat. 
Vessels h arvesting  Crab Rationalization Program crab in the Bering Sea. | §§  680.7(c)(2)  and  680.23(d) | To monitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations. 
Federally permitted vessels operating in the GOA with non-pelagic trawl or dredge gear on board. | §§  679.7(a)(22) ,  679.28(f)(6)(iii) | To monitor compliance with area closures to protect Essential Fish Habitat.
GOA Rockfish Program —  vessels assigned to a rockfish cooperative must use VMS at all times when operating in a reporting area off Alaska from May 1 until November 15; or until that rockfish cooperative has submitted a rockfish cooperative termination of fishing declaration that has been approved by NMFS. In addition, vessels assigned to a rockfish cooperative and subject to a sideboard limit must use VMS at all times when operating in a reporting area off Alaska from July 1 until July 31. | §§  679.5(r)(7) ,  679.7(n)(3 ), 679.28(f)(6)(iv) | To monitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations.
Amendment 80 catcher/processors at all times while operating in the BSAI or GOA. | §§  679.5(s)(7) , 679.28(f)(6)(vi) | To monitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations.
Vessels operating in the Western and Central GOA (Federal reporting areas 610, 620, or 630) that receive and process groundfish from other vessels.  | §§  679.7(b)(4)(ii) ,  679.28(f)(6)(v) | M onitor compliance with area-specific processing caps in the Western and Central GOA and a requirement that Pacific cod harvested in the GOA may not be delivered to a vessel for processing in a different regulatory area. 
Vessels fishing for individual fishing quota (IFQ) sablefish in the Bering Sea or Aleutian Islands IFQ regulatory areas (including vessels using pot gear). | §§  679.28(f)(6)(vii) , 679.42(k)(1) | M onitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations.
Vessels using pot gear to fish for IFQ or CDQ halibut or CDQ sablefish in the BSAI. | §§  679.7(f)(26) , 679.28(f)(6)(viii) ,   679.42(m)(4)(ii) | M onitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations, and to monitor vessels using pot gear to retain halibut IFQ or CDQ.
Vessels operating in a GOA IFQ regulatory area and using longline pot gear to fish IFQ sablefish or to retain halibut incidentally in longline pot gear.  | §§  679.7(f)(25) ,  679.28(f)(6)(viii) , and  679.42(k)(2)  and  (l)(7)(ii) , Annual halibut management measures ( 88 FR 14066, 03/07/2023 ) | M onitor compliance with requirements to redeploy or remove pot gear from the fishing grounds within a specified time period. 
Pacific Cod Trawl Cooperative Program   (PCTC Program)  —  catcher vessels assigned to a PCTC  Program  cooperative or that are subject to sideboard limits detailed in § 679.13 3  must use functioning VMS equipment as described at § 679.28(f) at all times when operating in a reporting area off Alaska during the A and B season. | §§  679.7(m)(3) ,  679.134(f)(5) | M onitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations.
Cook Inlet EEZ Commercial Salmon Fishery   —   vessel s  required to have a  Salmon Federal Fisheries Permit  issued under § 679.114  to commercially fish for salmon in the  Cook Inlet  EEZ Area must use a functioning VMS unit as described in § 679.28(f) . | § 679.11 7(b)(1)(xiv)   [new] | M onitor part icipation in the  Cook Inlet EEZ salmon  fishery and compliance with Federal fishing area, time, and catch accounting regulations.  
OPTIONAL Any vessel that carries a transmitting VMS while fishing for halibut in Area 4A, 4B, 4C, or 4D, and until all halibut caught in any of these areas is landed, is exempt from vessel clearance requirements. | Annual  halibut management measures ( 88 FR 14066, 03/07/2023 ) No.  1 5 --Vessel Clearance in IPHC Regulatory Area 4, No. (16) | M onitor proper accounting of area-specific allocations. These requirements in the halibut annual management measures are not subject to the PRA. 


What type of information is collected? VMS units automatically transmit the location of a vessel several times per hour using a Global Positioning System satellite. The VMS unit is passive and automatic, requiring no reporting effort by the vessel operator. A communications service provider receives the transmission and relays it to NMFS OLE.
Who must comply with this information collection? Owners and operators of vessels required to carry transmitting VMS units are the people required to comply with the components of this information collection. From 2020 to 2023, an average of 559 commercial fishing vessels per year participating in the federally managed groundfish, crab, and scallop fisheries off Alaska transmitted vessel location via VMS. NMFS estimates 100 vessels will likely install VMS due to the rule. This estimate is derived from the number of vessels that have participated in Federal Cook Inlet in past years, that some vessels that will participate already have VMS installed so are already included in the vessel count due to their participation in other VMS programs, and an assumption that many vessels will choose to only fish in State waters to avoid additional monitoring cost and impacts to their operations with Federal management. Therefore, the annual number of vessels carrying VMS units is estimated at 659 vessels (559 vessels 3-yr average + 100 expected new vessels).
How is the information collected? Vessel owners comply with the requirements to submit vessel location information to NMFS by purchasing, installing, and maintaining an approved and operational VMS unit. Prior to participating in operations requiring VMS, a vessel owner must obtain a NMFS-approved VMS transmitter and install it or have it installed on board the vessel. The VMS transmitter must be available for inspection by NMFS personnel, observers, or authorized officers. The vessel owner must ensure that the VMS transmitter is not tampered with, disabled, destroyed, or operated improperly, and must pay all charges levied by the VMS service provider agreement.
How frequently is the information collected? An average of 7.2 million VMS transmissions per year were transmitted from the 559 vessels from 2020 to 2023. Most of these vessels were transmitting location information every half hour (two times per hour) when not in port and every hour while in port. Vessels using trawl gear to fish in the Aleutian Islands were required to transmit their location via VMS at least ten times per hour. With the addition of the vessels expected due to the rule, NMFS estimates an average of 7.3 million VMS transmissions per year will be transmitted from the 659 vessels. 
VMS transmissions are not considered responses or included in the burden hour estimates for this collection summarized in Question #12 because vessel position location is automatically transmitted from the VMS unit. The vessel transmission rates and total transmissions are used to estimate the communications costs associated with providing the vessel location information (see Question #13).
What is this information used for? VMS allows verification of where fishing is occurring in real time. VMS allows verification that vessels fishing in an area are permitted to fish in that area, facilitates enforcement of area closures in certain fisheries, and allows NMFS OLE to check the accuracy of vessel position information reported by the vessel operator in the daily logbooks. VMS also helps ensure harvested fish are properly debited or reported because NMFS can track vessels as they arrive in port to offload the product. In addition, NMFS OLE uses VMS to monitor compliance with requirements to redeploy or remove pot gear from the fishing grounds within a specified time period. VMS is used to track the management areas in which vessels are fishing on a given trip, and agents could then follow up with a dockside inspection to see what gear was returned to shore when making a landing. 
VMS data also is used by NMFS and the North Pacific Fishery Management Council to analyze the impacts of current fisheries and proposed fishery conservation and management actions. 
Is this information shared? Section 515 of Public Law 106-554 (the Information Quality Act) requires NMFS to ensure the quality, objectivity, utility, and integrity of information it publicly disseminates. Data submitted by VMS units is aggregated, synthesized, summarized, and presented in a non-confidential format to the public in reports and analyses of fishery conservation and management measures. Public dissemination of these data is governed by NOAA's information quality guidelines, which were issued on October 30, 2004.
Reports and analyses prepared with VMS data generally fall under NOAA's information quality category “synthesized products.” These products have been developed through analysis of original data by applying methods that require some scientific evaluation and judgment; however, these methods of analysis generally are well documented and relatively routine. Therefore, peer review is generally not required for reports and analyses prepared using VMS data.
Reports and analyses undergo internal agency review by people familiar with the underlying data and fisheries being described. In addition, analyses presented to the North Pacific Fishery Management Council are reviewed by its Scientific and Statistical Committee.
Data from the VMS unit registration are maintained and used primarily by NMFS OLE to monitor compliance. This information may periodically be made available to the public in summary form as was done to prepare the projections used in this analysis.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g. permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection. Also, describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.

The VMS collection-of-information is automated and integrates current information technology in the fishery management and monitoring process. 
Describe efforts to identify duplication. Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Question 2

No other management agency requires the submission of VMS data from fishermen participating in the federally managed fisheries off Alaska. In general, Alaska Region information collections are prepared and reviewed by staff familiar with all of the information collection requirements for the region. Staff work together to develop information collection requirements for new programs. In addition, NMFS staff work closely with the staff of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game and the International Pacific Halibut Commission to reduce duplication in information collection requirements to the extent possible given overlapping jurisdictions and complex fisheries. Senior staff at the Alaska Region, NMFS headquarters, and the Department of Commerce General Counsel review all new and revised information collection requirements that are associated with rulemakings. This process minimizes the potential for duplication of information collection requirements for participants in the Federal fisheries off Alaska.

If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any methods used to minimize burden.

This collection-of-information impacts some small entities. NMFS has attempted to minimize the burden of the VMS requirements on small entities primarily through the VMS Reimbursement Program to offset the cost of purchasing a VMS unit. More information about this program is in the response to Question #13.

The VMS requirements added by this rule (RIN 0648-BM42) are part of the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting measures that will increase direct costs and burden to the participants of the Cook Inlet EEZ commercial salmon fishery. Federal funds may be available under the VMS Reimbursement Program to qualified vessel owners or operators for complete reimbursement of the cost of purchasing type-approved VMS units, which would offset over 75 percent of the total purchase and installation cost for fishery participants. However, vessel operators will have to replace their VMS units at their own expense as units wear out or become technologically obsolete.

While the requirements for this rule do increase costs to commercial fishery participants, they are required by NMFS to manage the fishery and prevent overfishing. Specific consideration was given in their development to minimize burden to the extent practicable while also providing required information to Federal fishery managers in a timely manner. All entities that are directly regulated by this action could also choose to continue participating in only the State waters fisheries to avoid being subject to these Federal requirements.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

The VMS is an integral part of the management of the fisheries in the Alaska Region for reasons described in more detail in the response to Questions #1 and # 2. The inability to collect vessel location through VMS would reduce NMFS’s ability to monitor and enforce complex, overlapping, and numerous closure areas, area-specific allocations to individuals and entities, and other regulatory limitations.

Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with OMB guidelines.
Although VMS units transmit the location of a vessel several times per hour, the VMS unit is automatic and requires no reporting effort by the vessel operator. Therefore, this information collection does not require respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly.
This collection does not require respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in fewer than 30 days after receipt of it.
This collection does not require respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any document.
This collection does not require respondents to retain records, other than health, medical, government contract, grant-in- aid, or tax records for more than three years.
This collection is not in connection with a statistical survey, that is not designed to produce valid and reliable results that can be generalized to the universe of study.
This collection does not require the use of a statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and approved by OMB.
This collection does not include a pledge of confidentiality that is not supported by authority established in statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies that are consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data with other agencies for compatible confidential use.
This collection does not require respondents to submit proprietary trade secret, or other confidential information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to protect the information's confidentiality to the extent permitted by law.

If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publications in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8 (d), soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB. Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments. Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

A proposed rule (88 FR 72314) soliciting public comments published on October 19, 2023. The comment period ended on December 18, 2023. Five comments were received on the VMS requirements. No changes were made because of the comments received. The comments and NMFS’ responses are presented below.

Comment 1: NMFS received comments that a VMS requirement is not necessary for several reasons, including that the drift gillnet fishery has minimal or no bycatch of marine mammals, sea birds, or protected fish stocks, there are no closed economic zones nearby, and that there is no VMS requirement in salmon fisheries in the East and West Areas of the EEZ, where Alaska Department of Fish and Game reporting requirements are deemed sufficient. Commenters also asserted that NMFS did not provide a legitimate or sufficient justification for the VMS requirement. Several commenters also said that they felt NMFS was imposing it as a punishment. One commenter asked if other forms of electronic monitoring are required.

Commenters also noted that the VMS devices cost $3,000, which can be a significant portion of their gross earnings in seasons when there is a declared fishery disaster, and require additional monthly fees to operate.

Response: The final rule at § 679.117(b)(1)(xiv) requires vessels to use a VMS while salmon fishing the Cook Inlet EEZ Area. NMFS has determined that use of a VMS is necessary and is proposing this requirement solely to effectively and efficiently manage the fishery. NMFS uses VMS for most Federal fisheries off Alaska, particularly when fishing vessels must comply with area restrictions. Vessels drift gillnet fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ are prohibited from fishing in the adjacent EEZ waters south of the Anchor Point line and in the State waters directly adjacent to the eastern, western, and northern boundaries of the Cook Inlet EEZ Area. Furthermore, a vessel that has started fishing in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area is prohibited from fishing in State waters on that same calendar day. Drift gillnet vessels that are fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ are subject to closed areas and VMS is used to monitor compliance with these regulations. 

NMFS acknowledges that VMS is not a requirement in the East Area troll salmon fishery. However, management of the East Area is delegated to the State which allows fishing to occur seamlessly across the EEZ boundary. Further, the State has well established monitoring and enforcement infrastructure as well as other regulations to manage the fishery without the use of VMS. Similarly, the delegated management approach proposed for the Cook Inlet EEZ Area under Alternative 2 (Section 2.4.8.1 the Analysis) was not expected to include a VMS requirement given the State’s existing management tools and expertise. However, the State of Alaska would not accept a delegation of management authority. 

As described in Sections 2.5.6 and 4.7.2.2 of the Analysis, NMFS chose not to require much more costly onboard observers or electronic monitoring camera systems in this fishery. Therefore, VMS data and logbooks are necessary to ensure accuracy of reported fishing effort, catch accounting, and compliance with regulations. Critically, NMFS managers will depend on VMS to determine the effort and projected catch in order to inform management decisions. Furthermore, without VMS, OLE would have to rely exclusively on resource-intensive patrols by air and sea; methods that are not as accurate as VMS in verifying that no fishing is occurring in closed waters and confirming fleetwide reported fishing effort information.

Vessel owners will be responsible for the cost of obtaining and operating a VMS. As discussed in Section 4.7.2.2.7 of the Analysis, NMFS estimates the cost of purchasing a compliant VMS unit at $3,100. One time installation and tax costs are estimated at $888. Annual service and maintenance is estimated at $206. NMFS acknowledges that these requirements place additional burden on fishermen. However, Federal funds may be available to qualified vessel owners or operators for complete reimbursement of the cost of purchasing type-approved VMS units, which would offset over 75% of the total purchase and installation cost for fishery participants.

Comment 2: The State of Alaska supports the proposed monitoring requirements to enforce the prohibitions on drift gillnet fishing in State and Federal waters on the same day, including requirements for commercial salmon fishing vessels in the EEZ to operate a VMS and complete a Federal logbook. NMFS may wish to consider onboard monitoring requirements such as electronic monitoring or observers to ensure adequate total catch accounting.

Response: NMFS acknowledges this support of the proposed VMS and Federal logbook management measures described in the proposed rule and required by this final rule. As described in Sections 2.5.6 and 4.7.2.2 of the Analysis, NMFS considered but did not require electronic monitoring or observers due to high costs and limited additional management utility beyond the measures contained in this final rule.



Comment 3: VMS devices impose a significant privacy cost, requiring vessel owners to transmit their exact location to NMFS every hour of every day, regardless of why they are using their vessel. 

Response: NMFS disagrees. VMS data are collected for many Federal fisheries. Section 402(a)(2) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act authorizes the collection of data necessary for the efficient management of fisheries, but provides for restrictions on the release of that data beyond NMFS. VMS collects vessel location information in near real time that it uses to ensure efficient management and compliance with regulations. VMS data collected for law enforcement purposes is considered confidential under section 311(b)(1)(a)(vi) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act. Federal regulations at § 679.28(f)(3)(v) provide that vessel owners participating in a fishery that requires a VMS must make the VMS transmitter available to “NMFS personnel, observers, or an authorized officer.” Federal regulations at § 600.1509(b) limit the circumstances under which personally identifying information, including business identifiable information, can be disclosed beyond authorized entities, such as NMFS. NMFS does not release confidential data to the public unless directed by a court order. If NMFS uses VMS data in publications, it is aggregated to prevent release of confidential information.

Comment 4: This action discriminates against Cook Inlet commercial fishers. Amendment 16 violates National Standard 4 as it does not allocate fishing privileges in a way that is fair and equitable. It places a total allowable catch on one group of harvesters (the drift fleet) in one area (the EEZ), without a similar requirement on any other group. This can severely affect the economic viability of the drift fleet if the total allowable catch is set incorrectly, there are excess salmon to harvest, and the drift fleet is precluded from harvesting them. In addition, requiring a VMS system to commercial fish in Federal waters is not equitable as there is no similar requirement for the recreational fishery, or any VMS requirement for vessels fishing salmon in the East Area.

Response: As explained in the proposed rule, NMFS has determined that Amendment 16 is consistent with National Standard 4. National Standard 4 provides:
“Conservation and management measures shall not discriminate between residents of different states. If it becomes necessary to allocate or assign fishing privileges among various United States fishermen, such allocation shall be (a) fair and equitable to all such fishermen; (b) reasonably calculated to promote conservation; and (c) carried out in such manner that no particular individual, corporation, or other entity acquires an excessive share of such privilege.”

NMFS disagrees that this action does not allocate fishing privileges in a way that is fair and equitable. The drift gillnet fleet has historically harvested over 99.99% of the salmon caught in the Cook Inlet EEZ. The recreational fishery sector in the Cook Inlet EEZ is estimated to harvest the remaining amount, an estimated average of 66 fish per year. This action is expected to maintain the harvest range of both EEZ fisheries and not modify allocations. If harvests by the recreational fishery sector increase, then NMFS will implement other monitoring measures. Further, on-the-water and dockside enforcement is sufficient because the same bag limits apply across State and Federal waters for a single calendar day.

The rationale for requiring VMS in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area while it is not required in the East Area is addressed in the response to comment 1.

Comment 5: Amendment 16 does not adequately consider or promote efficiency in the utilization of fishery resources, and it fails to minimize costs and avoid unnecessary duplication to the extent practicable in violation of National Standards 5 and 7.

NMFS’s analysis notes that Amendment 16 will “increase direct costs and burdens to S03H permit holders due to requirements including obtaining a [Salmon Federal Fisheries Permit (SFFP)], installing and operating a VMS, and maintaining a federal  logbook” among other requirements. NMFS also chose to open fishing in the EEZ on the same days and at the same times that the state fishery is open and to prohibit participants from fishing in state and federal waters during the same trip. This limitation makes no sense, is extremely inefficient, is impracticable for participants, and appears punitive."

Response: NMFS disagrees that this action does not consider efficiency in the utilization of fishery resources. NMFS also disagrees that this action fails to minimize costs and avoid unnecessary duplication. Because the State of Alaska would not accept a delegation of management authority nor commit to providing the information required for management within the needed timeframe, NMFS must establish Federal monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements to supply this essential information to Federal fishery managers. As described in the response to comment 1, NMFS identified the information required to manage and enforce salmon fishing in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area. NMFS considered the additional costs and burden of these measures on participants in Section 4.7.2.2  of the Analysis.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

No payment or gift to respondents is provided under this program.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy. If the collection requires a systems of records notice (SORN) or privacy impact assessment (PIA), those should be cited and described here.
All VMS units include systems to minimize the risk of direct or inadvertent disclosure of vessel position. The information collected, including VMS transmissions, is confidential under section 402(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a et seq.), and also under NOAA Administrative Order 216-100, which sets forth procedures to protect confidentiality of fishery statistics.
The System of Records Notice that covers this information collection is COMMERCE/NOAA #6: Fishermen's Statistical Data.

The Privacy Impact Assessment that covers this information collection is NOAA NMFS Alaska Region Local Area Network (NOAA4700).

Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior or attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private. This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent.

This information collection does not involve information of a sensitive nature.

Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information.

Total estimated unique respondents are 659. This total includes 100 new vessels that NMFS estimates will install a new VMS unit due to this rule. Although, some additional vessels may install VMS, NMFS estimates that these additional vessels are covered in the conservative estimates of respondents already included in this collection.

VMS transmissions are not considered responses or included in the burden estimates because vessel position location is automatically transmitted from the VMS unit.

Information Collection | Type of Respondent (e.g., Occupational Title) | # of Respondents/year (a) | Annual # of Responses / Respondent (b) | Total # of Annual Responses (c) = (a) x (b) | Burden Hrs / Response (d) | Total Annual Burden Hrs (e)   = (c) x (d) | Hourly Wage Rate (for Type of Respondent) (f) | Total Annual Wage Burden Costs (g) = (e) x (f)
VMS   installation of new units | Vessel owner | 33 annualized (100/3) | 1 | 33 * | 6 hrs | 198   hrs   annualized (600  hrs /3) | * | *
VMS installation of replacement units | Vessel owner | 33 annualized (100/3) | 1 | 33 * | 6 hrs | 198   hrs   annualized (600  hrs /3) | * | *
VMS maintenance | Vessel owner | 659 | 1 | 659* | 4 hrs | 2, 6 36  hrs | * | *
VMS failure troubleshooting (assume 5% failure rate/year) | Vessel owner | 33 ( 6 59 × 0.05) | 1 | 33* | 2 hrs | 66 hrs | * | *
Totals |  |  |  | 758 * |  | 3, 098   hrs |  | $0*
* The vessel owner is present during installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting operations, so there are burden hours associated with being required to be present for these activities. However, the vessel owner pays a technician an average of $128/hour to perform this work, so the labor costs associated with these activities are recorded below under miscellaneous costs. Because there is no information collected by NMFS in advance, during, or after the installation, maintenance, or troubleshooting of the VMS units, these events do not contribute to the number of responses for this information collection.

Provide an estimate for the total annual cost burden to respondents or record keepers resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden already reflected on the burden worksheet).

Response to Question 13 (continued)
As noted above, NMFS estimates that approximately 559 vessels are carrying operating VMS units in the groundfish, crab, and scallop fisheries off Alaska and 100 vessels will install units due to the rule (RIN 0648-BM42). Depending on which brand of VMS is chosen, NMFS estimates the price of a VMS unit ranges from about $2,500 to $3,200. All 559 of the currently operating VMS units have already been purchased. 

In 2006, NOAA established a VMS Reimbursement Program to offset the cost of purchasing a new VMS unit for the purpose of complying with fishery regulations pursuant to the Magnuson-Stevens Act (see http://www.psmfc.org/program/vessel-monitoring-system-reimbursement-program-vms). The Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission in collaboration with NMFS OLE distributes the allocated reimbursement funds to eligible, confirmed vessel owners and operators. The reimbursement program is for eligible vessels that have not had a VMS unit installed before and reimburses the cost of the base unit of the first VMS unit up to $3,100. Many of these reimbursements were made because of requirements to upgrade or replace outdated VMS units. 

VMS units periodically wear out or break down and must be replaced, and some vessel operators voluntarily upgrade their VMS units. NMFS estimates that 100 units will be replaced over the course of the 3-year renewal period of this information collection, or an annualized rate of 33 VMS replacements per year (100/3). These replacement units are not likely to be eligible for reimbursement due to the “one time” provisions of the reimbursement program. Each of these 33 replacement units are estimated to cost $3,100 per unit for a total annual cost of $102,300. NMFS selected $3,100 as a cost estimate for the replacement units because it is the maximum allowed for new unit reimbursement and probably represents a good average cost of a new or replacement unit. 

Depending on which brand of VMS is chosen, the average monthly cost of a VMS service provider agreement is approximately $60 for transmission two times per hour and approximately $190 for transmission ten times per hour (trawling in the Aleutian Islands). NMFS is unable to breakdown the total estimate of 7.3 million VMS transmissions per year between three categories of transmission rates (ten times per hour, two times per hour, and one time per hour when a vessel is in port). Therefore, for purposes of estimating the average cost of VMS transmissions per vessel and overall, NMFS assumes that each vessel required to use VMS pays for a 12-month service provider agreement at the $60/month rate. The majority of the vessels will be fishing in areas and fisheries that require transmission of location information two times per hour; however, the assumption that each vessel will be paying for VMS transmission the full 12-months of the year is conservative, so balances out the fact that some of the vessels will be paying a higher monthly charge for more frequent transmissions. 

Based on these assumptions: 
 
The cost for VMS transmission for a single vessel is $720 (12 months * $60/month). 
The cost for VMS transmission for all vessels is $474,480 (659 vessels * $720/hour). 

The hourly charges for installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting by a qualified marine electronics technician vary by location. Based on responses to informal interviews, Seattle rates are approximately $115 per hour; Kodiak rates are approximately $135 per hour; and Dutch Harbor rates are approximately $142 per hour. Thus, the average of the high and low rates, $128 per hour, has been used to estimate this burden.

Table 13a. Summary of estimates of total annual cost burden to respondents, including capital and start-up costs and operations and maintenance costs, including the costs to hire technicians to do VMS installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting.

Information Collection | # of Respondents /  Yr | Annual # of Responses / Respondent | Total # of Annual Responses | Cost Burden / Response | Total Annual Cost Burden
VMS Installation - new units 1 | 33 annualized (100/3) | 1 | 33 annualized (100/3) | $128 x 6  hrs  (electrician)  |  $        25, 344  
VMS installation - replacement units | 33 annualized (100/3) | 1 | 33 annualized (100/3) | $3100 + $128 x 6  hrs  (electrician) |  $       127,644  
VMS Maintenance | 659 | 2 | 659 2 | $720 3  (transmission costs) + $128 x 4  hrs  (electrician) |  $      811,888 
VMS failure / troubleshooting | 33 (659 x 0.05) | 1 | 33 | $128 x 2  hrs  (electrician) |  $           8,448 
Totals | 758 |   | 758 |   |  $       973,324  

1 NMFS expects that all vessels participating in the Cook Inlet EEZ commercial salmon fishery will qualify for reimbursement under the VMS Reimbursement Program. 
2 The automatic transmission of vessel location data from the VMS unit is not considered a response under the PRA because the information is sent automatically from the unit with no need for any action by the vessel operator or crew.
3 See explanation under heading “Response to Question 13 (continued).”





Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal government. Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

Alaska Region VMS data are monitored and interpreted by NOAA OLE. Currently, no officers are directly dedicated to the NMFS Alaska Region VMS Program; however, a program manager and an enforcement technician work on VMS.

The fully loaded salary cost includes 52 percent of the salary to account for benefits and other overhead costs (e.g., $78,056 * 1.52 = $118,645 loaded salary). The grade and step are from the Department of Commerce Alternative Personnel System (CAPS) 2024 pay tables (https://www.commerce.gov/hr/practitioners/caps/pay-administration). The general schedule grade equivalent for CAPS is included in parentheses.

Cost Descriptions | Grade/Step | Loaded Salary /Cost | % of Effort | Fringe (if Applicable) | Total Cost to Government
Federal Oversight program manager | ZA-4  step 4 (GS 13/14) | $280,943 | 3% |  | $ 8, 428
Other Federal Positions |  |  |  |  | 
enforcement technician | ZS- 4  step 4 (GS 7/8) | $ 124,818 | 1 2 % |  | $ 14,978
Contractor Cost |  |  |  |  | $0
Travel |  |  |  |  | $0
Other Costs:  |  |  |  |  | $0
TOTAL |  |  |  |  | $ 23,406


Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in ROCIS.
This collection is revised because the rule (RIN 0648-BM42) requires vessels commercially fishing for salmon in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area to install and maintain an operational VMS. NMFS estimates 100 vessels will install a VMS due to this rule, which increases the number of respondents for this collection. The respondents have also been updated to reflect current participation in the federally managed fisheries off Alaska that require a VMS. The tables below identify the adjustments and program changes made to this collection.

Information Collection | Respondents | Responses | Burden Hours | Reason for change or adjustment
 | Current Renewal / Revision | Previous Renewal / Revision | Current Renewal / Revision | Previous Renewal / Revision | Current Renewal / Revision | Previous Renewal / Revision | 
VMS Purchase, Installation, Maintenance, Transmission Costs, & Troubleshooting | 0 | 550 | 0 | 611 | 0 | 2476 | Broken out into individual ICs for increased granularity
VMS installation of new units | 33 | — | 33 | — | 198 | — | The rule adds vessels that are expected to install VMS. No new installations were expected during the last renewal period. (program change)
VMS installation of replacement units | 33 | 0 | 33 | 0 | 198 | 0 | Change to adjust SSA and ROCIS to match. (adjustment)
VMS Maintenance (& daily transmission costs) | 659 | 0 | 659 | 0 | 2,636 | 0 | The rule increases the annual number of vessels that would be expected to have transmission costs (program change), and there was a small increase in the average number of vessels that currently have transmission costs (adjustment).
VMS installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting | 33 | 0 | 33 | 0 | 66 | 0 | The rule increases the number of vessels annually that would be expected to hire a technician to install, maintain, and troubleshoot VMS units (program change).
Total for Collection | 659 | 550 | 758 | 611 | 3,098 | 2,476 |  
Difference | 109 | 147 | 622 |  

Information Collection | Labor Costs | Miscellaneous Costs | Reason for change or adjustment
 | Current | Previous | Current | Previous | 
VMS Purchase, Installation, Maintenance, Transmission Costs, & Troubleshooting | 0 | 0 | 0 | 812668 | Broken out into individual ICs for increased granularity
VMS installation of new units | 0 | — | 25344 | — | The rule adds vessels that are expected to install VMS. No new installations were expected during the last renewal period. (program change)
VMS installation of replacement units | 0 | 0 | 127,644 | 0 | No change
VMS Maintenance (& daily transmission costs) | 0 | 0 | 811,888 | 0 | The rule increases the annual number of vessels that would be expected to have transmission costs (program change), and there was a small increase in the average number of vessels that currently have transmission costs (adjustment).
VMS installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting | 0 | 0 | 8,448 | 0 | The rule increases the number of vessels annually that would be expected to hire a technician to install, maintain, and troubleshoot VMS units (program change).
Total for Collection | $0  | $0  | $973,324  | $812,668  |  
Difference | 0 | $160,656  |  



For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication. Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used. Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

NMFS has no plans to publish the results of this information collection.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

There are no forms associated with this information collection on which to display an expiration date.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions."
The agency certifies compliance with 5 CFR 1320.9 and the related provisions of 5 CFR 1320.8(b)(3).
PART word/footnotes.xml


 In addition to the Federal requirements, the State of Alaska also requires VMS for vessels using some gear types in parallel groundfish fisheries under 5 AAC 28.087(c).
 “Federally permitted vessel” is defined at § 679.2 as a vessel that is named on either a Federal fisheries permit or a Federal crab vessel permit. 