                                 2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)




    SUPPORTING STATEMENT
          for PART A

  OMB Control Number (0551–0038)

                 Title:
Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops

             ICR Author:
               Curt Alt

  USDA, Foreign Agricultural Service

     1400 Independence Ave, SW

        Washington, DC 20250




                   1
                                                                    2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

1. Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary. Identify
any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection. Attach a copy of
the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the
collection of information.

This collection is a revision of a currently approved collection.

The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops program is authorized by Section 3205 of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107–171), as amended, and became effective
on May 13, 2002. Program regulations appear at 7 CFR part 1487. The program was most
recently reauthorized through the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018.


2. Indicate how, by whom and for what purpose the information is to be used. Except for a
new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received
from the current collection.

The Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) administers the program on behalf of the Commodity
Credit Corporation (CCC). Data collected will be used by FAS marketing specialists and
program managers for fund allocation, program management, planning, and assessment.
Participants are required to keep documents for 5 years after completing a project.

      Proposals: Through the proposal, prospective applicants submit data about their
      organizations and projects so that FAS can determine the extent to which applicants satisfy
      the criteria upon which allocations are based. The proposal must include the information
      outlined in each program year’s Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO), which are
      published annually on Grants.gov.

      Project Agreements: The project agreement is a binding instrument and creates a legal
      obligation on the part of CCC to make funds available to the Participant. The agreement
      creates a relationship between CCC and the Participant, with each side contributing
      resources to support achievement of mutual goals. Because the agreement binds the United
      States Government, it is a proper basis for obligating funds and establishing the basis for
      this program.

      Performance Measurement: FAS requires Participants, in their applications, to submit
      performance measures to: (1) monitor performance of technical assistance projects, (2)
      evaluate the benefits and effects of these projects, and (3) document the experience gained
      from these activities for use in the design and implementation of future projects. Based on
      this information, FAS program managers are also better able to determine what changes
      are needed in future programs to improve program performance.


                                                 2
                                                               2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

     Reimbursement Claims: The project agreement and corresponding amendments provide
     the authorities and limitations for Participants to make expenditures. The Participant is
     responsible for instituting a financial management and accounting system that ensures
     accurate, current, and complete disclosure of all financial transactions for each approved
     activity. All expenditures incurred must be proper, reasonable, and in accordance with
     program regulations. The Participant is responsible for submitting claims to FAS
     requesting reimbursement for incurred costs as outlined in the application.

     Office Management Records: Other reporting and recordkeeping requirements, e.g. travel
     reports, are required as a means of ensuring that U.S. Government resources are disbursed
     as judiciously as possible. FAS requires the same control of Participant spending of
     taxpayer funds as the U.S. Government requires of its own employees. For example, FAS
     asks Participants traveling on U.S. Government funds to follow provisions of the Federal
     Travel Regulations.

     Other Reports and Record Keeping Requirements: Other reports and records are required
     to ensure the proper and judicious use of Government resources. Participants must submit
     reports of findings whenever CCC resources are used for travel or research purposes.
     Auditable supporting documentation is required for all expenses reimbursed with CCC
     resources. These might include, but are not limited to: canceled checks, invoices, samples
     of produced materials, etc. As a rule, such requirements conform to generally accepted
     Government standards.


3. Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of
automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other
forms of information technology, e.g. permitting electronic submission of responses, and
the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection. Also describe any
consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.

FAS makes every effort to comply with the E-Government Act, 2002 (E-Gov) and to provide for
alternative submission of information collections. FAS requires only the bare minimum in data
collection and submission from applicants. The few activity codes established by FAS for use by
Participants are used to answer congressional inquiries in program areas such as travel,
administrative costs, and evaluation.


4. Describe efforts to identify duplication. Show specifically why any similar information
already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Item 2
above.



                                               3
                                                                 2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

Every effort has been made to avoid duplication. There is no similar data collection available. To
ensure integrity, FAS solely administers the data required by Participants who submit and enter
into business with FAS in accordance with contract specifications and which cannot be obtained
from any other source other than the Participants. Program Participants are commodity
organizations who develop proposals specifically for each project. Most of the data developed
and presented to FAS is developed in–house by technical experts on their staffs.

Since 1997, FAS has required TASC Participants to use the Unified Export Strategy (UES)
system. The UES was custom–built from the ground up for the specific purpose of administering
the FAS market development programs and includes specific capabilities and enhancements that
are not available in any other system. The core benefit of the UES is that it allows applicants to
submit a single application that can contain an unlimited number of coordinated and interlinked
applications across the six different FAS market development programs. This use of a single,
holistic application provides tremendous time and cost savings to applicants, and reduces their
application burden significantly.

The design of the UES forces interested applicants to think strategically about their approach to
their worldwide promotional activities and develop an integrated and holistic marketing plan that
outlines their proposed foreign market development activities and directs requested funding
under each of the FAS market development programs to where it can be most effective and
useful. An additional benefit of applying through the UES is the elimination of duplication and
redundancy across related applications. By requiring only a single coordinated application for
unlimited proposals across the FAS market development programs, applicants only need to enter
required information once. Finally, the use of the UES means that FAS does not need to require
the use of any other supplemental forms or documents, including the common Standard Forms
used in other programs, because all of the necessary information is already captured in the UES
system. The elimination of unnecessary duplication and wasted effort has saved thousands of
hours and millions of dollars since the system was introduction in 1997, and the ease of
application and robust system flexibility are appreciated and welcomed by the program
stakeholders.


5. If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of
OMB Form 83–1), describe any methods used to minimize burden.

This program places information collection requirements on applicants, who generally include
U.S. government agencies, State government agencies, non–profit trade associations,
universities, agricultural cooperatives, and private companies. For the purposes of this collection,
Federal responses have been excluded. Of the 25 estimated annual respondents, the agency
estimates 4% are small businesses. Thus, the information collection requirements imposed by
this program do not require any significant actions on the part of small businesses.


                                                 4
                                                                  2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)


6. Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not
conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to
reducing burden.

This is a mandatory, on-going information collection request. Proposals are only submitted when
an applicant would like to receive funding for a project. No other data is collected unless the
proposal is approved.

Less frequent collection is not possible without the agency violating the laws that govern this
program. The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops program is authorized by Section 3205
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107–171), as amended, and
became effective on May 13, 2002. Program regulations appear at 7 CFR part 1487. Section
3205 provides that the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a program to address unique
barriers that prohibit or threaten the export of U.S. specialty crops. Without this collection, the
agency would not be able to effectively implement and monitor the established program set by
Congress.


7. Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be
conducted in a manner:

*     requiring respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly;

*     requiring respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in
      fewer than 30 days after receipt of it;

*     requiring respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any
      document;

*     requiring respondents to retain records, other than health, medical or government
      contract, grant–in–aid, or tax records for more than three years;

*     in connection with a survey that is not designed to produce valid and reliable results
      that can be generalized to the universe of the study;

*     requiring the use of a statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and
      approved by OMB;

*     that includes a pledge of confidentiality that is not supported by authority established
      in statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies


                                                  5
                                                                2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

        that are consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data
        with other agencies for compatible confidential use; or

*       requiring respondents to submit proprietary trade secret, or other confidential
        information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to
        protect the information’s confidentiality to the extent permitted by law.

There are no special circumstances that require the collection of information inconsistent with 5
CFR 1320.


8. If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the
Federal Register of the agency’s notice required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d), soliciting comments
on the information collection prior to submission to OMB. Summarize public comments
received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to
these comments. Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

         FAS published a 60-day Notice of Proposed Information Collections for public
         comments in the Federal Register, Volume 90; Page 24092, on June 6, 2025. The public
         was given until August 5, 2025, to submit comments on the proposed information
         collection. FAS received no comments on this proposed collection.


Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the
availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping,
disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed,
or reported.

Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or
those who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years –– even if the
collection of information activity is the same as in prior periods. There may be
circumstances that may preclude consultation in a specific situation. These circumstances
should be explained.


In March 2025, FAS solicited comments on the reasonableness of the burden estimates from
existing program stakeholders and received comments from the following individuals:

    •    Abhijeet Kulkarni, Almond Board of California, 209-343-3228,
         akulkarni@almondboard.com
    •    Lina M. Quesada-Ocampo, Ph.D., North Carolina State University, 919-513-3530,
         lmquesad@ncsu.edu

                                                6
                                                                 2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)


The respondents agreed that most of the burden estimates were reasonable and in line with their
experiences, although they suggested that the burden estimates for some elements were low due
to having to prepare and enter information in the UES system. FAS is aware that this has been a
historical concern from many applicants, and launched a modernization of the UES system in
2023 to improve the overall experience for all participants in the FAS market development
programs. This years–long effort will develop a completely new UES interface that addresses the
consistent complaints and issues that participants have encountered when using the system. The
first phase of the new interface was deployed April 4, 2025, with additional development and
enhancements continuing for at least the next two years.

Given the concerns expressed by the respondents, FAS has increased the burden estimate for the
time it takes to prepare an application from 24 hours to 40 hours.


9. Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than
remuneration of contractors or grantees.

The agency does not provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of
contractors or grantees.


10. Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the
assurance in statute, regulation or agency policy.

Participants will be aware that information collected relating to this program is generally open
for public inspection, but the agency may withhold information which could cause substantial
competitive harm to the submitter under exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA),
5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). It is also the agency’s policy, prior to responding to an FOIA request, to
obtain and consider the views of the submitter of the information if the information submitted is
not readily identifiable as privileged or private. If the agency disagrees with the views presented
by the submitter, it will give the submitter sufficient time, prior to release of the information, to
pursue legal action to prevent the release.


11. Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual
behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered
private. This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the
questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be
given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to
obtain their consent.


                                                 7
                                                                 2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

There are no sensitive questions involved in this information collection.


12. Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information. The statement
should:

*     Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and
      an explanation of how the burden was estimated. Unless directed to do so, agencies
      should not conduct special surveys to obtain information on which to base hour
      burden estimates. Consultation with a sample (fewer than 10) of potential
      respondents is desirable. If the hour burden on respondents is expected to vary
      widely because of differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of
      estimated hour burden, and explain the reasons for the variance. Generally, estimates
      should not include burden hours for customary and usual business practices.

*     If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour
      burden estimates for each form and aggregate the hour burdens in Item 13 of OMB
      Form 83–1.

*     Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for
      collections of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories.
      The cost of contraction out or paying outside parties for information collection
      activities should not be included here. Instead, this cost should be included in Item 14.

The agency is requesting the estimated annual burden of 1,650 hours, this is based on separate
estimates of five distinct areas of data collection: Proposals, project agreements with FAS,
performance measurement, reimbursement claims, and office management records. TASC
projects can last up to five years, and the burden estimates provided herein are calculated for the
life of the award. The estimates used to determine the burden on the public are explained as
follows:

      a)    Proposals. Proposals include separate assessments, projections, goals, etc., all of
            which make up a comprehensive proposal. The current estimate for one Participant
            to complete a proposal is 40 hours.

      b)    Project Agreements. The project agreement is a binding instrument and creates a
            legal obligation on the part of CCC to make funds available to the Participant.
            Participants will take approximately 2 hours to review the proposed contracts
            prepared by FAS, clear them with their lawyers, and return them to FAS.

      c)    Performance measurement. Participants are required to evaluate the effectiveness of
            their programs through interim and final reports to: (1) monitor performance of

                                                 8
                                                                           2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

                   technical assistance projects, (2) evaluate the benefits and effects of these projects,
                   and (3) document the experience gained from these activities for use in the design
                   and implementation of future projects. Establishing good performance measures
                   enables Participants to perform meaningful assessments. Based on these assessments,
                   Participants and FAS program managers are better able to determine what changes
                   are needed to improve program performance and designing future programs.
                   Performance assessment reports? are expected to take 10 hours to prepare.

              d)   Reimbursement Claims. Participants submit claims to FAS whenever they feel their
                   costs are of sufficient size to justify a claim for reimbursement. The reimbursement
                   billing cycle varies by Participant depending on the level of activities and size of
                   program. Participants are required to maintain receipts for all costs incurred for
                   which reimbursement from project funds will be requested. The estimate of 8 hours
                   for reimbursement claims includes all incidental office costs and procedures
                   necessary to prepare and support each claim. Participants are required to maintain
                   appropriate records for three calendar years after termination of the project
                   agreement or five calendar years following the end of the year in which the
                   transaction evidenced by the record took place, whichever is less.

         e)        Office Management Records. Participants are required to keep good office records
                   available for audit. These records include such things as travel reports and receipts
                   for all disbursements. Maintaining office records is estimated to take 6 hours.

     The estimated total cost to all combined respondents is based on the following:


                                                                       AV
                             NUMBER OF                      TOTAL      HOURS        TOTAL      COST PER      COST TO
     DESCRIPTION                                 FREQ
                             RESPONDENTS                    RESPONSE   PER          HOURS      HOUR*         PUBLIC
                                                                       RESP
A)   Proposals               25                  1          25         40           1,000      $76.21        $76,210.00
B)   Project Agreements      25                  1          25         2            50         $76.21        $3,810.50
C)   Assessment              25                  1          25         10           250        $76.21        $19,052.50
D)   Reimbursement Claims    25                  1          25         8            200        $76.21        $15,242.00
     Office Management                                                                                       $11,431.50
E)                           25                  1          25         6            150        $76.21
     Records
                             25                  -          125        -            1,650      -             $125,746.50



     *Average hourly cost is estimated at $76.21. This hourly cost is based on the national hourly
     average rate for Administrative Services and Facilities Managers provided in the Occupational

                                                        9
                                                               2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) tables found on BLS.gov. The hourly cost used in this
estimate includes fringe benefits. The total annual estimated burden in dollars is $125,746.50.


13. Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or recordkeepers
resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden
shown in Items 12 and 14).

*    The cost estimate should be split into two components: (a) a capital and start–up cost
     component (annualized over its expected useful life); and (b) a total operation and
     maintenance and purchase of services component. The estimates should take into
     account costs associated with generating, maintaining, and disclosing or providing the
     information. Include descriptions of the methods used to estimate major cost factors
     including system and technology acquisition, expected useful life of capital equipment,
     the discount rate(s), and the time period over which costs will be incurred. Capital
     and start–up costs include among other items, preparations for collection information
     such as purchasing computers and software; monitoring, sampling, drilling and
     testing equipment; and record storage facilities.

*    If cost estimates are expected to vary widely, agencies should present ranges of cost
     burdens and explain the reasons for the variance. The cost of purchasing or
     contracting out information collection services should be a part of this cost burden
     estimate. In developing cost burden estimates, agencies may consult with a sample of
     respondents (fewer than 10), utilize the 60–day pre–OMB submission public comment
     process and use existing economic or regulatory impact analysis associated with the
     rulemaking containing the information collection, as appropriate.

*    Generally, estimates should not include purchases of equipment or services, or
     portions thereof, made: (1) prior to October 1, 1995, (2) to achieve regulatory
     compliance with requirements not associated with the information collection, (3) for
     reasons other than to provide information or keep records for the government, or
     (4) as part of customary and usual business or private practices.

There are no capital/start–up or ongoing operation/maintenance costs associated with this
information collection.


14. Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government. Also, provide a
description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of
hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff),
and any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of


                                               10
                                                                2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

information. Agencies also may aggregate cost estimates from Items 12, 13, and 14 in a
single table.

The estimated annual costs to the Federal Government, including fringe benefit costs, for all
submissions found in the guidelines are as follows:

          ITEM              ORG        GRADE           RATE *          HOURS             COST
 A) Proposals               POD           13           $72.90             20                 $1,458
                           CoPD           13           $72.90            320                $23,328
 B) Project Agreements      POD           13           $72.90             40                 $2,916
                           CoPD           13           $72.90             80                 $5,832
 C) Assessment              POD           13           $72.90             20                 $1,458
                           CoPD           13           $72.90            160                $11,664
 D) Administrative          POD           13           $72.90            100                 $7,290
 Procedures
         TOTAL                                                           740                $53,946



Note: POD refers to the Programs Operations Division of FAS. This office is responsible for
administrative operation of the TASC program. CPD refers to the Commodity Program Division
of FAS, which is responsible for review of application and evaluation content and day to day
contact with program participants.

*The annual estimated cost to the Federal Government for this collection is $53,946, based on
the 2025 GS-13 Step 10 hourly rate of $56.08 plus a 30% multiplier to create a fully loaded
amount to account for fringe benefits, which represents the FAS staff reviewing information
submissions.


15. Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or
14 of the OMB Form 83–I.

This is a revision of a currently approved information collection request. The currently approved
estimates on OMB Burden Inventory for this collection are 25 estimated respondents annually
with 25 estimated total annual responses and 1,250 estimated annual burden hours.

The agency is requesting 25 estimated respondents, 125 estimated total annual responses and
1,650 estimated total annual burden hours. The number of estimated respondents remains
unchanged. However, there is an increase in the estimated total annual responses from 25 to
125, an increase of 100 estimated total annual responses, due to adjustments in the number of

                                               11
                                                                2025 Supporting Statement (0551–0038)

estimated total annual responses. Lastly, there is an increase in the estimated total annual burden
hours from 1,250 to 1,650, an increase of 350 estimated total annual burden hours, this
adjustment is directly related to the increased number of responses expected.


16. For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for
tabulation and publication. Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.
Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of
the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

The agency has no plans to publish any documents.


17. If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the
information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

The agency is not seeking approval to not display the OMB Control Number and Expiration
Date.


18. Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19,
“Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83–1.

There are no exceptions.




                                                12
