JOLTS Frequently Asked Questions : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Skip to Content
An official website of the United States government
Here is how you know
United States Department of Labor
The .gov means it's official.
Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information,
make sure you're on a federal government site.
The site is secure.
The
https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any
information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Release Calendar | Subscribe
Search button
Search:
Menu
Search button
Search:
Release Calendar | Subscribe
Home
About BLS
History
Our Leadership
Budget and Performance
Questions and Answers
A-Z Index
Glossary
BLS Speakers Available
Errata
Contact BLS
Overview of BLS Statistics
Guide to Programs & Services
Demographics
Industries
Business Costs
Occupations
Geography
Resources For
Business Leaders
Consumers
Developers
Economists
Investors
Jobseekers
Media
Public Policymakers
Researcher
Students & Teachers
Survey Respondents
Subjects
Inflation & Prices
Consumer Price Index
Producer Price Indexes
Import/Export Price Indexes
Contract Escalation
Price Index Research
Pay & Benefits
Employment Cost Index
Employer Costs for Employee Compensation
Wage Data by Occupation
Earnings by Demographics
Earnings by Industry
County Wages
Benefits
Modeled Wage Estimates
Compensation Research
Strikes & Lockouts
Wage Records from Unemployment Insurance
Occupational Requirements
Unemployment
National Unemployment Rate
State & Local Unemployment Rates
Unemployment Research
Employment
National Employment
State & Local Employment
County Employment
Worker Characteristics
American Indian Report
Employment Projections
Job Openings & Labor Turnover Survey
Business Response Survey
Employment by Occupation
Work Experience Over Time
Business Employment Dynamics
Foreign Direct Investment
Employment Research
Workplace Injuries
Productivity
Labor and Total Factor Productivity
Productivity Research
Spending & Time Use
Consumer Expenditures
How Americans Spend Time
International
International Technical Cooperation
Import/Export Price Indexes
Geographic Information
Northeast (Boston-New York)
Mid-Atlantic (Philadelphia)
Southeast (Atlanta)
Midwest (Chicago)
Southwest (Dallas)
Mountain-Plains (Kansas City)
West (San Francisco)
Data Tools
Data Retrieval Tools
BLS Popular Series
Series Report
Top Picks, One Screen, Multi-Screen, and Maps
Data Finder
Public Data API
Charts and Applications
Charts for Economic News Releases
CPI Inflation Calculator
Injury and Illness Calculator
Pay Measure Comparison
Demographic Data Sources
COVID-19 Economic Trends
Industry Productivity Viewer
Employment and Wages Data Viewer
Industry Finder from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages
Customized Tables
U.S. Economy at a Glance
Regions, States & Areas at a Glance
Industry at a Glance
Text Files
News Release Tables
More Sources of Data
Restricted Data Access
Discontinued Databases
Questions & Answers
Special Notices
Publications
Latest Publications
The Economics Daily
Monthly Labor Review
Beyond the Numbers
Spotlight on Statistics
Reports
Videos
Career Outlook
Occupational Outlook Handbook
Geographic Profile
Handbook of Methods
Research Papers
Copyright Information
Contact & Help
Weekly Update
Economic Releases
Latest Releases
Major Economic Indicators
Schedules for news Releases
By Month
By News Release
Current Year
Prior Years
Archived News Releases
Employment & Unemployment
Monthly
Quarterly, annual, and other
Inflation & Prices
Pay & Benefits & Workplace Injuries
Productivity & Technology
Employment Projections
Regional News Releases
Classroom
K-12 Student & Teacher Resources
Games & Quizzes
Student's Desk
Teacher's Desk
Questions & Answers
Beta
Redesigned News Releases
Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
SHARE ON:
Search Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
JOLTS Home
JOLTS Publications
Publications Overview
News Releases
Additional Publications
Subscriptions
JOLTS Data
Data Overview
Databases
Latest Numbers
JOLTS Methods
Methods Overview
Handbook of Methods
Benchmarking
National Technical Note
State Technical Note
Reliability
Data Collection Forms
About JOLTS
About JOLTS Overview
Overview
Information for Survey Respondents
Questions & Answers
State Estimates
Related Links
Notices
Contact JOLTS
Bureau of Labor Statistics >
Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey >
About
> Questions & Answers
Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey About Questions & Answers
JOLTS Frequently Asked Questions
Expand All Collapse All
How are job openings defined in JOLTS? ▸
Job openings are all positions that are open on the last business day of the reference month. A job is open only if it meets all three of these conditions:
A specific position exists and there is work available for that position. The position can be full-time or part-time, and it can be permanent, short-term, or seasonal.
The job could start within 30 days, whether or not the employer can find a suitable candidate during that time.
The employer is actively recruiting workers from outside the establishment to fill the position. Active recruiting means that the establishment is taking steps to fill a position. It may include advertising in newspapers, on television, or on the radio; posting internet notices, posting "help wanted" signs, networking, or making word-of-mouth announcements; accepting applications; interviewing candidates; contacting employment agencies; or soliciting employees at job fairs, state or local employment offices, or similar sources.
How are hires defined in JOLTS? ▸
Hires include all additions to the payroll during the entire reference month, including:
New and rehired employees
Full-time and part-time employees
Permanent, short-term, and seasonal employees
Employees who were recalled to a job at the location following a layoff (formal suspension from pay status) lasting more than 7 days
On-call or intermittent employees who returned to work after having been formally separated
Workers who were hired and separated during the month
Transfers from other locations
Excluded are transfers or promotions within the reporting location; employees returning from strike; employees supplied by temporary help agencies or employee leasing companies; outside contractors; or consultants.
How are separations defined in JOLTS? ▸
Separations include all separations from an establishment’s payroll during the reference month. There are three types of separations—quits, layoffs and discharges, and other separations. Each type of separation is reported separately. The three types of separations are then summed to obtain total separations.
Excluded from separations measures are transfers within the same location; employees on strike; and employees supplied by temporary help agencies or employee leasing companies; outside contractors; or consultants.
How are quits defined in JOLTS? ▸
Quits are separations of employees who left voluntarily at any point during the reference month. Quits exclude retirements or transfers to other locations.
How are layoffs and discharges defined in JOLTS? ▸
Layoffs and discharges are involuntary separations initiated by the employer, including:
Layoffs with no intent to rehire
Layoffs (formal suspension from pay status) lasting or expected to last more than 7 days
Discharges resulting from mergers, downsizing, or closings
Firings or other discharges for cause
Terminations of permanent or short-term employees
Terminations of seasonal employees (whether or not they are expected to return the next season)
How are other separations defined in JOLTS? ▸
Other separations include separations due to retirement, death, disability, and transfers to other locations of the same firm.
Employees on medical or maternity leave are not counted as other separations.
Are job openings, hires, and separations stock measures or flow measures? ▸
Stock measures are a snapshot of a particular point in time. Job openings are stock measures because they estimate the number of job openings on the last business day of the month.
Flow measures are measured over a period of time. Hires and separations are flow measures because they estimate the number of hires and separations during an entire month. Unlike a stock measure, the sum of all twelve months of a flow estimate yields an annual total. The components of separations—quits, layoffs and discharges, and other separations—are also flow measures.
What is the reference period for JOLTS? ▸
Job openings have a different reference period than that for hires and separations. The reference period for job openings is the last business day of the month, while the reference period for hires and separations is the entire month.
Why does the JOLTS survey have revisions? ▸
JOLTS revises published estimates to improve its data series by incorporating additional information that was not available at the time of the initial publication of the estimates. The first time a monthly estimate is published, it is considered preliminary. The following month, that estimate is revised to incorporate additional sample receipts from respondents in the survey and is considered final. The recalculation of seasonal factors also contributes to the monthly revisions.
Additionally, JOLTS estimates are revised annually to reflect annual updates to the Current Employment Statistics (CES) employment estimates. At the time of the annual updates, the prior 5 years of seasonally adjusted and not seasonally adjusted JOLTS data are subject to revision.
How big is the JOLTS sample? ▸
JOLTS samples approximately 21,000 units, primarily using the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) as its sample frame. The QCEW provides a list of establishments that cover over 95 percent of nonfarm payroll jobs in the United States. For more information about the JOLTS sample, see the Data Sources section of the JOLTS Handbook of Methods.
How are JOLTS data collected? ▸
Each month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) collects data on job openings, hires, and separations from a sample of establishments. JOLTS has a comprehensive program of new sample unit solicitation in two Regional Data Collection Centers (DCCs). The DCCs perform initial enrollment of each establishment via telephone, collect the data for several months via Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing (CATI), and, where possible, transfer respondents to web reporting. In addition, the DCCs conduct an ongoing program of refusal conversion.
Offering survey respondents a choice of reporting methods helps sustain response rates to this voluntary survey.
More information about JOLTS data collection is available in the Data Sources section of the JOLTS Handbook of Methods.
What information is collected from each respondent to the JOLTS survey? ▸
For all collection methods, JOLTS uses a standard set of questions listed and explained in the JOLTS data collection forms . There are three forms: one for temporary help agencies and professional employer organizations, one for the education industry, and one for all other businesses. Each form asks establishments to report:
Number of full- or part-time employees who worked or received for pay for the pay period that includes the 12th of the month
Number of job openings on the last business day of the month
Number of hires for the entire month
Number of quits for the entire month
Number of layoffs and discharges for the entire month
Number of other separations for the entire month
Most JOLTS data are provided though a web collection tool, but respondents are supplied with JOLTS collection forms for reference.
Does JOLTS break out data by geography? ▸
Yes. JOLTS estimates for the four regions of the country are published each month in the Job Openings and Labor Turnover news release . JOLTS also produces another news release each month—the State Job Openings and Labor Turnover news release —that presents estimates for each state. JOLTS regional and state estimates are only produced at the total nonfarm level.
Does JOLTS break out data by occupation? ▸
No, JOLTS does not collect occupation information. The Current Population Survey (CPS) and the Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) program publish employment statistics by occupation, though neither program collects data on job openings.
Is hires minus separations equal to the over-the-month employment change as measured by the Current Employment Statistics (CES)? ▸
Over-the-month employment change is measured by the Current Employment Statistics (CES) survey—often referred to as the establishment survey—and is reported in the Employment Situation news release . If separations are subtracted from hires, the difference represents an implied employment change. The JOLTS implied employment change and the CES over-the-month employment change are conceptually similar and track well over time. However, the series can diverge from each other in the short term because the two surveys differ in methodology. For example, they have definitional differences, different reference periods, and distinct estimation procedures.
How can I get JOLTS microdata or data about a certain company? ▸
The mission of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is to collect, process, analyze, and disseminate essential statistical data to the American public, the U.S. Congress, other federal agencies, state and local governments, business, and labor. In order to maintain credibility and trust with our survey respondents, confidentiality protections for our data are essential. Protecting the confidentiality of data is central to accomplishing the BLS mission.
When collecting data, the BLS makes a pledge of confidentiality to its respondents. This pledge varies depending on the context of each survey, but the standard BLS confidentiality pledge promises that data collected are used for statistical purposes only. The BLS confidentiality page lists information about the policy and laws that protect reporters to BLS surveys.
Researchers can get access to BLS microdata under certain circumstances. Information about qualifying for the program and the application process through which access may be granted can be found on the BLS Restricted Data Access page.
Last Modified Date: December 4, 2024
Home
Subjects
Data Tools
Publications
Economic Releases
Classroom
Beta
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
Office of Employment and Unemployment Statistics
Suitland Federal Center
Floor 3
4600 Silver Hill Road
Washington, DC 20212-0002
Telephone: 202-691-5870
www.bls.gov/JLT
Contact JOLTS
resources
Inspector General (OIG)
Budget and Performance
Department of Labor Grants
No Fear Act
USA.gov
about the site
Sitemap
Freedom of Information Act
Privacy and Security Statement
Disclaimers
Linking and Copyright Info
Important Website Notices
Help and Tutorials
Accessibility Statement
Connect With BLS
Bluesky
Instagram
LinkedIn
Threads
Visit BLS on X
Youtube
Email