Estimate burden | Digital.gov
Skip to main content
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock (
Lock
Locked padlock
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Guidance on building better digital services in government
Menu
Join communities
Browse resources
Explore guides
Read blogs
Search small
Digital.gov Guide
A guide to the Paperwork Reduction Act
The Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) is a law governing how federal agencies collect information from the public.
Glossary
About
Do I need clearance?
Approval process
Clearance types
Estimate burden
Get help
Sections
About
Do I need clearance?
Approval process
Clearance types
Estimate burden
Get help
Estimate burden
Burden hours and cost
One of the goals of the PRA is for the federal government to consider and account for the impact on the public when asking for information. This impact is called burden , and includes the value of both the time and the effort required to fulfill a collection along with the financial cost.
The PRA requires that agencies estimate burden to understand what is involved for the public to comply with a request.
Some common burden activities include:
Reviewing instructions. Compiling materials necessary for collection. Acquiring, installing, and utilizing technology and systems. Adjusting existing ways to comply with previous instructions and requirements. Searching data sources. Completing and reviewing collected information. Compiling and sending information. Overall, burden can seem intimidating, especially in a large collection. Our burden activity questions are a starting point to help you begin thinking about scope.
Avoiding excessive burden
Some examples of excessive burden include:
Addressing more respondents than necessary. Asking questions that are not relevant or essential. You must justify questions about personally sensitive matters like religious beliefs or political affiliation, or questions that may cause persons to incriminate themselves. Asking for a reporting frequency that is higher than necessary. Not considering an alternative approach to obtain the information. Requesting information in a different format than is usually maintained. If your collection involves activities seen as excessive, you must justify them in the purpose and need sections of the collection in your supporting statement .
Look up unfamiliar words
If you encounter unfamiliar words or concepts in these guides, you can find definitions and explanations in the glossary.
Explore glossary
Burden activities
Many activities count as burden. These questions can help you to determine if a burden activity should be factored into your estimate. This is not a comprehensive list, but a starting point for you to begin thinking about the scope of burden in your collection.
Reviewing instructions
How much time, effort, and cost will it take for respondents to understand what information the agency is asking for and how to collect it? Compiling materials necessary for collection
How much time, effort, and cost will it take for the respondents to locate, gather and compile necessary documentation required for the information collection? Technology and systems
What technology and systems do respondents need to gather, process, store, and send information? Is this new technology that needs to be bought? If it does not exist at all, what is the cost of development? Is there a cost associated with installation or with training? Are there one-time costs? Is there a cost to use the technology, like a subscription? Adjusting existing methods
If a previous collection has been updated or changed, how will the current methods need to be adjusted? Training personnel
Will the collection require staff, contractors, or other agents to undergo training to respond? How much time or money is needed to ensure they understand both program and policy context, and can respond to the collection? Will there be additional training for actual reporting and recordkeeping methods? Searching data sources
Are there public or private data sources that respondents can use to respond to the collection? What would be the cost of creating new data sources? Completing and reviewing collected information
How much time, money, and effort will it take to perform all tasks in the collection? Does the information also need to be certified for accuracy and reliability? Sending and disclosing information
What must be done to send the collected information to the federal agency requesting it? Does it need to be sent or disclosed to a third party, like other federal agencies or offices, state or local governments, other companies, or members of the public? How to estimate burden
OMB has consistently held that measuring burden is "often difficult and imprecise in the absolute, but reliable and consistent measures of change are possible." These guidelines and resources are a good starting point for agencies to make the best estimates of burden for their collections.
Time (burden hours)
Estimates of burden hours need to include:
The number of respondents. The frequency of response. The total number of burden hours per year. Base your burden hour estimates on consultation with a representative sample of potential respondents; do not make a special survey to make an estimate unless directed.
Burden hours may vary widely due to differences in activity, size, or complexity. If they do, include a frequency distribution of expected burden along with the factors that explain why.
To value and account for the full array of personnel required to plan, develop, prepare, and fulfill an information collection, burden hour estimates fall into four categories of labor:
Clerical and other unskilled workers Skilled-labor, craft-labor, and other technical workers Professionals and managers Executives This includes time spent by all employees, partners, and associates of the respondent. All wages need to be fully-loaded, meaning they reflect the full cost of labor, including benefits. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' wage data is a good resource to start with.
Financial costs and all other aspects of burden
Using market prices for time and effort, report burden costs that will be carried directly or indirectly by subordinates, associates, agents, or contractors for the respondent.
If you expect respondents to satisfy some part of a collection through outside consultants, contractors, legal and financial advisors, report the estimate for these services as a lump sum.
These types of burden need to be estimated in two separate categories:
Non-recurring or capital cost: one-time investments to fulfill a collection request Recurring or annualized cost: ongoing costs, such as operating or maintaining a capital investment Burden calculation
When submitting burden estimate to OIRA the agency should be prepared to include:
Estimated burden hours per respondent; Estimated aggregate burden hours; Estimated capital and other non-labor costs per respondent; and Estimated aggregate capital and non-labor costs.
Note
A guide to the Paperwork Reduction Act was made in collaboration with 18F and PRA officers across the federal government. It is maintained by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) within the Office of Management and Budget.
Please contact the OIRA team at pra@omb.eop.gov to:
Share feedback about the guide Ask any questions about interpretations of the PRA law and guidance
Clearance types
Get help
Header image credit: pch.vector, via Freepik
Was this page helpful?
Glossary
Search for a term:
annualized cost
Cost per year with one-off costs distributed over the duration of the information collection.
burden
Time, effort, or financial resources required to generate, maintain, or provide information for a collection.
capital cost
A one-time expense to buy something needed to answer an information collection request.
clearance
Permission to collect a specific set of data from the American public.
contractor
Federal contractors are considered members of the public under the PRA.
control number
Two four-digit numbers separated by a hyphen. The first four digits identify the sponsoring agency and bureau, and the last four identify the particular collection.
de minimis
Changes that are purely cosmetic in nature.
desk officer
The OIRA staff member reviewing an information collection request.
exempt
Status for collections that do not require OMB approval under specific statutory reasons, despite otherwise meeting the criteria.
extension request
A request to extend the approval of a currently approved collection without making any material changes.
fast-track
The process for approval for a collection already covered by an existing generic clearance.
Federal Register
The daily journal of the United States government. Its use is required by the PRA to gather comments from the public during the 60- and 30-day comment periods. https://www.federalregister.gov/
generic clearance
A broad type of standard clearance issued in advance for a group of similar, low-burden collections. A good fit for surveys.
IC
A proposal and process for requesting information. PRA approval is granted to collections.
ICB
OIRA's annual report sent to Congress summarizing the major activities under PRA, and the total burden of information collection.
ICR
Details about a proposed collection to be reviewed by the agency, public, and OIRA desk officers.
information collection
A proposal and process for requesting information. PRA approval is granted to collections.
information collection request
Details about a proposed collection to be reviewed by the agency, public, and OIRA desk officers.
non-substantive change
A change made to an information collection that requires OIRA review and approval but does not require public comment.
OIRA
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, part of the Office of Management and Budget
OMB
Office of Management and Budget
person
For purposes regarding the Paperwork Reduction Act, a person can be an individual, individuals representing a partnership, association, corporation, legal representative — or any combination of these. Also includes state, territorial, tribal, or local governments.
PII
Personally Identifiable Information. Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.
PRA
The Paperwork Reduction Act. A law governing how federal agencies collect information from the American public.
recordkeeping
The practice and process of organizing and maintaining information, documents, or data as required by an agency's guidelines.
reinstatement request
A request for OMB approval of a previously approved collection that either was discontinued or expired.
revision request
A request to materially change a currently approved collection, such as updating the collection instrument, instructions, or its frequency. Also requests to extend the approval period.
ROCIS
Regulatory Information Service Center (RISC) RISC/OIRA Combined Information System (ROCIS) is the digital platform used by agencies to submit PRA clearance requests to OIRA.
sponsor
To cause or trigger the collection of information. Agencies sponsor collections.
the public
People or groups outside of the federal government. Federal employees and military personnel are not considered the public under the PRA.
usability testing
For the purposes of the PRA, a type of user research that consists of asking users to navigate or perform tasks while observing them that may include semi-structured or open-ended questions.
Return to top
Learn
Join communities
Browse resources
Explore guides
Read blogs
Grow
Contribute to Digital.gov
Submit a GitHub issue
Connect
About us
Contact us
Site policies
Digital.gov
An official website of the
U.S. General Services Administration
About GSA
Accessibility statement
FOIA requests
No FEAR Act data
Office of the Inspector General
Performance reports
Privacy policy
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov