U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis
Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA)
Skip to sub-navigation
U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis
Menu
Statistics
Analysis
Tools
Education
News
Enter Search Term(s):
Search
‹ Consumption & Efficiency
Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS)
Glossary › FAQS ›
Overview
Data
2022
2018
2014
2010
2006
2002
1998
1994
Archive
Analysis & Projections
The chemicals subsector accounted for the largest share of purchased electricity, natural gas, and steam
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
On average, primary metals, paper, and transportation equipment establishments were the largest
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
More than 40% of manufacturing establishments participated in general energy management activities
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
Improving energy efficiency is important for the top energy-consuming subsectors
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
Natural gas and HGLs continue to increase their shares of total consumption
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
Growth in gross output continues to outpace manufacturing energy consumption growth
Data sources: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey ; Bureau of Economic Analysis, Gross Output by Industry
Nonfuel consumption is dominant in the chemicals sector
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
Four sectors account for most manufacturing energy consumption
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
Natural gas was the most-used fuel for all end uses
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey
In 2020, most U.S. households prepared at least one hot meal a day at home
Data source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2020 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS)
-->
Nearly 90% of U.S. households used air conditioning in 2020
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2020 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS)
-->
Final results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) are now available
Release date: March 18, 2026
The final set of results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS), which includes 12 new data tables and accompanying highlights , provides information on ratios of manufacturing fuel consumption to economic characteristics, average prices and quantities of purchased energy sources, and floorspace and building counts.
The new data show:
Consumption ratios of fuel by region were highest in the South.
On average, electricity and distillate fuel oil were the most expensive energy sources.
The average price of energy varied by region.
The chemicals subsector accounted for the largest share of purchased electricity, natural gas, and steam.
Petroleum and coal products had the highest energy consumption per employee.
Fabricated metal products establishments were the most numerous of all industries.
On average, primary metals, paper, and transportation equipment establishments were the largest.
Further, we republished nine data tables to provide hydrogen estimates by subsector and industry at the national level. This release is the first time we have published hydrogen estimates for the Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS). You can find these data in our data tables for:
Consumption Energy for All Purposes (First Use)
Energy Used as a Nonfuel (Feedstock)
Energy Consumption as a Fuel
Offsite-Produced Fuel Consumption
Data Tables
2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey: Highlights from Final Data Release PDF
Features
Final results for energy management activities and establishment counts from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) are now available
Release date: December 17, 2025
The third set of results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS), which include 29 new data tables and accompanying highlights , provide information on U.S. manufacturing energy management activities and establishment counts.
The new data show:
Price changes would not affect the switch to alternative fuels.
More than 40% of manufacturing establishments participated in general energy management activities.
Less than 1% of manufacturing establishments had cogeneration technologies.
The largest shares of onsite cogeneration and onsite generation from other sources were in the South.
Improving energy efficiency is important for the top energy-consuming subsectors.
We will continue releasing the final 2022 MECS data through Spring 2026. A detailed schedule of the 2022 MECS release dates is available on the MECS data website .
Data Tables
2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey: Highlights from Data Release 1–3 PDF
Final results for consumption by economic characteristics of the manufacturers and expenditures for purchased energy sources from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) are now available
Release date: September 24, 2025
The second set of results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) , which include 9 new data tables and accompanying highlights , provide information on U.S. manufacturing energy consumption by economic characteristics of the manufacturers and expenditures for purchased energy sources.
The new data show:
The top five energy-consuming sectors account for about three-fourths of energy expenditures.
Establishments with the largest value of shipments and receipts accounted for over half of energy consumption.
At the national level, total consumption was similar across employment size categories.
Most natural gas and steam were purchased from nonutilities.
We will continue releasing the final 2022 MECS data through Spring 2026. A detailed schedule of the 2022 MECS release dates is available on the MECS data website .
Data Tables
2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey: Highlights from Data Release 1 and 2 PDF
Final consumption, end use, and fuel-switching results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) are now available
Release date: August 6, 2025
First set of results from the 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS), which include 35 new data tables and accompanying highlights , provide information on U.S. manufacturing energy consumption (fuel and nonfuel), end uses of fuel consumption, and fuel-switching capability.
The new data show:
Manufacturing energy consumption continues to grow, in part, due to increased natural gas consumption
Nonfuel (feedstock) consumption is greatest in chemical manufacturing
Four subsectors—chemical, petroleum and coal products, paper, and primary metals—account for most of the manufacturing energy consumption
Most subsectors cannot easily switch from natural gas to alternative fuels such as coal, electricity, and renewables
We will continue releasing the final 2022 MECS data through Spring 2026. A detailed schedule of the 2022 MECS release dates is available on the MECS data website .
-->Preliminary estimates show increased total U.S. manufacturing energy consumption in 2022
Release date: March 20, 2025
Preliminary results from our 2022 Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS) show that total U.S. manufacturing energy consumption increased 6% between 2018 and 2022. MECS is the only source for national estimates of energy-related characteristics, consumption, and expenditures for manufacturers in the United States.
The Capability of U.S. Manufacturing to Switch Fuels
Release Date: September 6, 2018
Preliminary estimates show that the total U.S. manufacturing energy consumption increased about 3.7% between 2010 and 2014. This is the first measured 4-year increase in manufacturing energy consumption since 2002 (Figure 1). Energy source shares have changed modestly since 2002, with natural gas rising from 29% to 33% of all manufacturing energy consumption. Conversely, during this same period, the share of delivered energy to manufacturing from coal, coke and breeze declined from 10% to 8%, while the share of fuel oils and naphtha together decreased from 7% to 5%.
-->
About the MECS
Attributes
Survey forms
Maps
MECS terminology
Archives
Contact MECS staff
Other End Use Surveys
Commercial Buildings - CBECS
Residential - RECS
Transportation
DOE Uses MECS Data
Manufacturing Energy and Carbon Footprints
Manufacturing Energy Sankey Diagrams
Manufacturing Carbon Sankey Diagrams
About EIA
Open Data
Legacy
Contact Us
U.S. Energy Information Administration
1000 Independence Ave., SW
Washington, DC 20585
Policies
Privacy/Security
Copyright & Reuse
Accessibility
Information Quality
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
Related Sites
usa.gov
U.S. Department of Energy
Stay Connected
Facebook
X
Youtube
LinkedIn
Email Updates
RSS Feeds
Statistics
Analysis
Tools
Education
News
Petroleum & Other Liquids
Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids.
Natural Gas
Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales.
Electricity
Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions.
Coal
Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports.
Nuclear & Uranium
Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel.
Renewable & Alternative Fuels
Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol.
EIA Survey Forms
Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.
Total Energy
Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources.
Monthly Energy Review
Annual Energy Review
Consumption & Efficiency
Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation.
Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS)
Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS)
Manufacturing Energy Consumption Survey (MECS)
U.S. States
State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.
State Energy Data System (SEDS)
International
International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.
International Energy Statistics
Environment
Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions.
U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016
Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level
Analysis and Projections
Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports.
Short-Term Energy Outlook
Annual Energy Outlook
Special Reports
Special market analysis and/or data requests.
EIA-112 Residential Utility Disconnections
SHIP Act
Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices?
International
International energy analyses.
Regional Analysis Briefs
Country Analysis Briefs
World Oil Transit Chokepoints
OPEC Revenue
Global Energy Security Data
Glossary
Data Tools, Apps, & Maps
Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data.
Open Data
EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets
EIA Beta
Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think!
Open Source Code
EIA's open source code, available on GitHub.
All Reports & Products
EIA Survey Forms
Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.
Email Updates
Sign up for email subscriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products
RSS Feeds
Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New.
Follow us. . .
A-Z Index
A |
B |
C |
D |
E |
F |
G |
H |
I |
J |
K |
L |
M |
N |
O |
P |
Q |
R |
S |
T |
U |
V |
W |
XYZ
Today in Energy
Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends.
Energy Explained
What is Energy?
Units & Calculators
U.S. Energy Facts
Use of Energy
Energy & Environment
Petroleum
Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids
Natural Gas
Coal
Nuclear
Electricity
Hydrogen
Hydropower
Biofuels
Biomass
Wind
Geothermal
Solar
For Teachers
Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner.
Glossary
FAQs
Coal
Conversion & Equivalents
Oil/Petroleum
Diesel
Electricity
Environment
Gasoline
General Energy
Natural Gas
Nuclear
Prices
Renewables
What's New?
Wholesale Electricity Market Data Sep 03, 2026 Petroleum Supply Monthly Sep 01, 2026 Petroleum Supply Annual Sep 01, 2026
Press Room
Press Releases
Congressional Testimony
Presentations
Events