                        Creating a Supporting Statement Part A
General Instructions
The Supporting Statement should be prepared in the format described below, and should contain
the information specified in Section A below. If an item is not applicable, provide a brief
explanation. OMB reserves the right to require the submission of additional information with
respect to any request for approval.
Specific Instructions
1. Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary. Identify any
   legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection. Attach a copy of the
   appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of
   information.
2. Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used. Except for a new
   collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the
   current collection.
3. Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of
   automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other
   forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the
   basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection. Also describe any consideration
   of using information technology to reduce burden.
4. Describe efforts to identify duplication. Show specifically why any similar information
   already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Item 2
   above.
5. If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any
   methods used to minimize burden.
6. Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not
   conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to
   reducing burden.
7. Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be
   conducted in a manner:
      requiring respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly;
      requiring respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in
       fewer than 30 days after receipt of it;
      requiring respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any document;
      requiring respondents to retain records, other than health, medical, government contract,
       grant-in-aid, or tax records, for more than three years;
      in connection with a statistical survey, that is not designed to produce valid and reliable
       results that can be generalized to the universe of study;
      requiring the use of a statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and
       approved by OMB;
      that includes a pledge of confidentiality that is not supported by authority established in
       statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies that are
       consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data with other
       agencies for compatible confidential use; or
      requiring respondents to submit proprietary trade secrets, or other confidential
       information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to protect
       the information's confidentiality to the extent permitted by law.
8. If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the
   Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d), soliciting comments on
   the information collection prior to submission to OMB. Summarize public comments
   received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to
   these comments. Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.
   Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the
   availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping,
   disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or
   reported.
   Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or those
   who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years - even if the collection of
   information activity is the same as in prior periods. There may be circumstances that may
   preclude consultation in a specific situation. These circumstances should be explained.
9. Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration
   of contractors or grantees.
10. Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the
    assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy. If the collection requires a systems of
    records notice (SORN) or privacy impact assessment (PIA), those should be cited and
    described here.
11. Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual
    behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered
    private. This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions
    necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to
    persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their
    consent.
12. Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information. The statement should:
      Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and an
       explanation of how the burden was estimated. Unless directed to do so, agencies should
       not conduct special surveys to obtain information on which to base hour burden
       estimates. Consultation with a sample (fewer than 10) of potential respondents is
       desirable. If the hour burden on respondents is expected to vary widely because of
       differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of estimated hour burden, and
       explain the reasons for the variance. Generally, estimates should not include burden hours
       for customary and usual business practices.
      If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour burden
       estimates for each form and aggregate the hour burdens.
      Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for collections
       of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories. The cost of
       contracting out or paying outside parties for information collection activities should not
       be included here. Instead, this cost should be included under ‘Annual Cost to Federal
       Government’.
13. Provide an estimate for the total annual cost burden to respondents or record keepers
    resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden
    already reflected on the burden worksheet).
      The cost estimate should be split into two components: (a) a total capital and start-up cost
       component (annualized over its expected useful life) and (b) a total operation and
       maintenance and purchase of services component. The estimates should take into account
       costs associated with generating, maintaining, and disclosing or providing the
       information. Include descriptions of methods used to estimate major cost factors
       including system and technology acquisition, expected useful life of capital equipment,
       the discount rate(s), and the time period over which costs will be incurred. Capital and
       start-up costs include, among other items, preparations for collecting information such as
       purchasing computers and software; monitoring, sampling, drilling and testing
       equipment; and record storage facilities.
      If cost estimates are expected to vary widely, agencies should present ranges of cost
       burdens and explain the reasons for the variance. The cost of purchasing or contracting
       out information collections services should be a part of this cost burden estimate. In
       developing cost burden estimates, agencies may consult with a sample of respondents
       (fewer than 10), utilize the 60-day pre-OMB submission public comment process and use
       existing economic or regulatory impact analysis associated with the rulemaking
       containing the information collection, as appropriate.
      Generally, estimates should not include purchases of equipment or services, or portions
       thereof, made: (1) prior to October 1, 1995, (2) to achieve regulatory compliance with
       requirements not associated with the information collection, (3) for reasons other than to
       provide information or keep records for the government, or (4) as part of customary and
       usual business or private practices.
14. Provide estimates of annualized costs to the Federal government. Also, provide a description
    of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours,
    operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any
    other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.
    Agencies may also aggregate cost estimates from Items 12, 13, and 14 in a single table.
15. Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported on the burden
    worksheet.
16. For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation
    and publication. Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used. Provide the
    time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of
    information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.
17. If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information
    collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.
18. Explain each exception to the topics of the certification statement identified in “Certification
    for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions.”
