PART word/document.xml
SUPPORTING STATEMENT
U.S. Department of Commerce
U.S. Census Bureau
Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES)
OMB Control No. 0607-1024

PART A: Justification

This revision request documents the modifications that transpired between June 2023 and February 2024.

1. Circumstances Making the Collection of Information Necessary

The U.S. Census Bureau requests Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval to conduct the Annual Integrated Economic Survey (AIES) on an annual basis, beginning for survey year 2023 (collected in calendar year 2024) and a preparatory Dress Rehearsal for the AIES for survey year 2022 (collected in calendar year 2023).  The AIES is a new survey designed to integrate and replace seven existing annual business surveys into one survey. The AIES will provide the only comprehensive national and subnational data on business revenues, expenses, and assets on an annual basis.  The AIES is designed to combine Census Bureau collections to reduce respondent burden, increase data quality, and allow the Census Bureau to operate more efficiently to reduce long term costs.  The existing collections integrated into the AIES are the Annual Retail Trade Survey (ARTS), Annual Wholesale Trade Survey (AWTS), Service Annual Survey (SAS), Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM), Annual Capital Expenditures Survey (ACES), Manufacturers’ Unfilled Orders Survey (M3UFO), and the Report of Organization.  The ARTS has been conducted annually since 1951 to collect sales, expenses, and other items for the retail sector of the economy.  The AWTS has been conducted annually since 1978 to collect data on sales, inventories, operational expenses, and purchases for wholesale trade.  The SAS has been conducted annually since 1982 to collect revenues and other measures for most traditional service industries.  The ASM has been conducted annually since 1949 to collect revenues, expenses, capital expenditures, fuels and electric energy used, and inventories in the manufacturing sector. The ACES has been conducted annually since 1996 to collect capital spending for new and used structures and equipment in agriculture, construction, mining, manufacturing, retail, wholesale, and service sectors.  The M3UFO began collecting manufacturing revenue and unfilled orders data in 2010.  The Report of Organization has been collecting information on organization and structure of firms to maintain the Census Bureau Business Register (BR) on an annual basis since 1973.

The AIES will include coverage of the following NAICS sectors of the U.S. economy:

11 - Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting 
111 - Crop Production 1
112 - Animal Production and Aquaculture 1
113 - Forestry and Logging 2
114 - Fishing, Hunting and Trapping 2
115 - Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry 2
21 - Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction 2
22 - Utilities
23 - Construction 2
31-33 - Manufacturing
42 - Wholesale Trade
44-45 - Retail Trade
48-49 – Transportation and Warehousing
482 - Rail Transportation 2
491 - Postal Service 1
51 - Information 
52 - Finance and Insurance 
525 - Funds, Trusts, and Other Financial Vehicles 1
53 - Real Estate and Rental and Leasing 
54 - Professional, Scientific, and Technical 
Excludes 54112 - Offices of Notaries
55 - Management of Companies and Enterprises 1
56 - Administrative and Support, and Waste Management and Remediation 
61 – Educational Services
6111 - Elementary and Secondary Schools 2
6112 - Junior Colleges 2
6113 - Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools 2
62 - Health Care and Social Assistance
71 - Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation 
72 - Accommodations and Food Services 
81 - Other Services (except Public Administration)
8131 - Religious Organizations 2
81393 - Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations 2
81394 - Political Organizations 2
814 - Private Households 1

1 Indicates NAICS is out-of-scope.  However, there are instances where companies with multiple locations have business activities in both in-scope and out-of-scope NAICS.  In these cases, NAICS that are considered out-of-scope will be asked to provide key data items limited to revenue, annual payroll, 1st quarter payroll, and employment for company-owned establishments. 

2 Indicates NAICS is only in-scope for the collection of limited items which include company-level data (business characteristics and business classification formerly collected in the Report of Organization), capital expenditure and robotics data (formerly collected in the ACES), and key data items limited to revenue, annual payroll, 1st quarter payroll, and employment. 

The AIES will collect the following information from employer businesses in sample (See Attachments E and F):

Business characteristics, including employment, operating status, organizational change, ownership information, and co-op status
Business classification, including business activity, type of operation, and tax status
Revenue, including sales, shipments, and receipts, revenue by class of customer, taxes, contributions, gifts, and grants, products, and e-commerce activity
Operating expenses, including purchased services, payroll, benefits, rental payments, utilities, interest, resales, equipment, materials and supplies, research and development, and other detailed operating expenses
Assets, including capital expenditures, inventories, and depreciable assets
Robotic equipment expenditures and usage

Additional topics of collections in the AIES include sources of revenue and/or expense for providers (e.g., hospitals and other businesses in the health industry) of select services such as inpatient days, outpatient visits to hospitals, patient visits for other selected health industries, revenue from telemedicine services, and expenses for electronic health records.  Product data will be collected from businesses operating in manufacturing industries. Merchandise lines data will be collected from businesses operating in select retail industries. Detailed inventories will be collected for select businesses operating in transportation services industries (e.g. trucks, truck tractors, and trailers). 

The AIES may include new questions each year based on relevant business topics.  Potential topics for such new questions could include technological advances, management and business practices, exporting practices, and globalization.  Any new questions will be submitted to OMB for review using the appropriate clearance vehicle.

In 2020 and 2021, research was conducted on the potential impacts of a coordinated collection of SAS, ARTS, and AWTS.  This coordinated collection research was designed to investigate the impact of implementing the existing contact strategy that encompassed multiple survey requests.  Following this coordinated collection research effort, approximately 19 interviews were conducted with nonrespondents, and 35 interviews were conducted with respondents.  In 2021, AIES data accessibility and recordkeeping studies were conducted with about 60 companies. In 2022, a pilot AIES was administered to 78 companies, including 2,863 establishments, to test the respondent experience; the pilot AIES survey focused on the layout and design of the collection instrument and harmonized content.  The Census Bureau received full or partial response from 62 of the 78 companies in the pilot survey. From the pilot survey, 10 debriefing interviews were conducted with respondents, and 15 Response Analysis Surveys (RAS) were completed by respondents. Cognitive testing encompassing survey structure, instrument design, and respondent reporting process was conducted with about 40 companies in 2022. Usability testing on the electronic collection instrument was conducted with up to 30 companies at the end of 2022 and continued into 2023.  A Phase II pilot was conducted and mailed in February 2023 with approximately 889 companies.  Phase II followed the same model as the first pilot with debriefing interviews and a response analysis survey.  In the Spring of 2023, we conducted Communications Testing Interviewing with approximately 25 firms. Usability testing interviews will begin in the fall of 2023 with approximately 30 companies.   All the aforementioned work has been conducted under the Census Bureau’s Generic Clearance for Field Tests and Evaluations (OMB# 0607-0971) or the Generic Clearance for Questionnaire Pretesting Research (OMB# 0607-0725) (See Attachment H).

In September of 2023, the Census Bureau began conducting a Dress Rehearsal for the AIES with approximately 8,470 companies.  The Dress Rehearsal collects survey year 2022 information.  The Dress Rehearsal is a large-scale test of the forms and procedures planned for the AIES.  The burden estimate is 3 hours and 55 minutes per respondent.  The Dress rehearsal allows us to examine patterns of non-response and to determine what additional support respondents will need. Paradata gathered from respondents’ interactions with the online collection instrument during the Dress Rehearsal will help refine our burden estimate.  We will also compare the quality of responses received to historical data collected in the 7 surveys the AIES will replace. Up to 50, 1-hour debriefing interviews with respondents will also be conducted.  Attachment C outlines the Dress Rehearsal respondent debriefing interview protocol.  Attachment N provides the AIES Dress Rehearsal findings and recommendations.

To minimize the burden imposed on most respondents already in sample for the seven annual surveys the AIES will replace, we will use the AIES responses from companies that participate in the Dress Rehearsal to satisfy their reporting requirement for the annual survey(s) for which they are in sample for the 2022 survey year.  Given that the AIES Dress Rehearsal will be conducted during the same calendar year as we will be conducting the 2022 Economic Census, we may use the AIES Dress Rehearsal to supplement Economic Census responses, pursuant to Title 13 U.S.C., Section 193.

After conclusion of the Dress Rehearsal, and based on refinements made to forms and procedures, the Census Bureau will begin conducting the full-scale AIES in 2024, collecting survey year 2023 information.  The target population of the AIES includes all domestic, private sector, non-farm employer businesses in the United States (50 states and the District of Columbia) as defined by the 2017 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).  Exclusions are foreign operations of U.S. businesses headquartered in the U.S. territories and most government operations (including the U.S. Postal Service), agricultural production companies and private households. Based on this target population, the AIES will select a stratified sequential random sample of approximately 385,940 companies from a frame of approximately 5.4 million companies constructed from the BR, which is the Census Bureau’s master business list. Businesses which reported business activity on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax forms 941, “Employer’s Quarterly Federal Tax Return”; 944, “Employer’s Annual Federal Tax Return”; 1065 “U.S. Return of Partnership Income”; or any one of the 1120 corporate tax forms will be eligible for selection.


The AIES will collect company, industry, and establishment information for all sampled enterprises with one or more operating locations in the United States and the District of Columbia (D.C.).  

In an effort to provide a holistic company view and replace the functions of the Report of Organization Survey with the AIES to maintain and update the BR as a master list of businesses,  the AIES will also collect limited company, industry, and establishment information for  select enterprises with one or more operating locations in associated offshore areas (referred to, collectively, as “Stateside”) as well as in the U.S. territories of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and American Samoa (referred to, collectively, as “Island Areas”).  In addition, any international locations of select enterprises are included if they have U.S. employees.  

The public administration sector (NAICS 92), agriculture production activities (NAICS 111, 112), the postal service (NAICS 491), funds and trusts (NAICS 525), offices of notaries (NAICS 54112), and private households (NAICS 814) are considered to be out-of-scope to the AIES program.  Activities for establishments in these industries belonging to sampled enterprises will also be collected. Enterprises that are exclusively engaged in these industries will not be selected. 

Non-employer businesses are also not within the scope of this new AIES.  The Census Bureau will submit a separate request for approval to collect data from non-employer businesses, if it is determined that a collection is needed to produce those estimates.  

Respondents will receive an email and/or letter notifying them of their requirement to respond and how to access the survey.  Responses will be due approximately 30 days from receipt. Select businesses will receive a due date reminder via a letter or email prior to the due date.  Additionally, email follow-ups and up to three mail follow-ups to nonrespondents will be conducted at approximately one-month intervals.  Selected nonrespondents will receive a priority class mailing for the third follow-up if needed. Selected nonrespondents will also receive follow-up telephone calls (See Attachment D for Dress Rehearsal Letters and Attachment M for production AIES letters).

The AIES will replace the ARTS, AWTS, SAS, ASM, ACES, M3UFO, and the Report of Organization for survey year 2023, at which time the Census Bureau will officially sunset these programs.  The ASM and the Report of Organization completed their final year of data collection in survey year 2021.  ACES, ARTS, AWTS, SAS, and M3UFO will complete their final year of data collection in survey year 2022.

The AIES collection is authorized by Title 13 U.S.C. Sections 131, 182, and 193.  Response to the AIES is mandatory per Sections 224 and 225 of Title 13 U.S.C. (See Attachment A).


2. Purpose and Use of Information Collection

Estimates currently published in ARTS, AWTS, SAS, ASM, and ACES will be produced as part of the AIES and expanded to include subnational data across the economy.  The ASM (manufacturing) is the only annual survey being integrated into the AIES that previously produced subnational data.  The AIES will produce subnational data for manufacturing, retail, wholesale, and service sectors if quality standards are met. The AIES information previously collected on the Report of Organization will continue to be used to update the Census Bureau’s BR, and the AIES data previously collected on the M3UFO will continue to be used for the Manufacturers’ Shipments, Inventories, and Orders (M3) Survey benchmarking purposes. Data users will be able to access the AIES estimates through the use of visualizations, CSV files, data.census.gov, and the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED), which is an online database maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.

Private businesses, organizations, industry analysts, educators and students, and economic researchers have used the data and estimates provided by the ARTS, AWTS, SAS, ASM, and ACES collections for analyzing and conducting impact evaluations on past and current economic performance, short-term economic forecasts, productivity, long-term economic growth, market analysis, tax policy, capacity utilization, business fixed capital stocks and capital formation, domestic and international competitiveness trade policy, product development, market research, and financial analysis.  Trade and professional organizations have used the estimates to analyze industry trends and benchmark their own statistical programs, develop forecasts, and evaluate regulatory requirements.  Government program officials and agencies have used the data for research, economic policy making, and forecasting.

Based on the use of the data of the existing collections, estimates produced from the AIES will serve as a benchmark for Census Bureau indicator programs, such as the Advance Monthly Sales for Retail and Food Services (MARTS), the Monthly Retail Trade Survey (MRTS), the Manufacturers’ Shipments Inventories & Orders (M3), the Monthly Wholesale Trade Survey (MWTS), and the Quarterly Services Survey (QSS).  Like the previous collections, the AIES will provide updates to the Longitudinal Research Database (LRD), and Census Bureau staff and academic researchers with special sworn status will continue to use the LRD for micro data analysis.  The Census Bureau will also continue to use information collected in the AIES to update and maintain the centralized, multipurpose BR that provides sampling populations and enumeration lists for the Census Bureau’s economic surveys and censuses.

The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) will continue to use the estimates to derive industry output for the input-output accounts and for the gross domestic product (GDP).  The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) will continue to use the data as input to its Producer Price Index (PPI) and in developing productivity measurements; the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) will continue to use the data to prepare the Index of Industrial Production, to improve estimates of investment indicators for monetary policy, and in monitoring retail credit lending; the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will continue to use the data to estimate expenditures for the National Health Accounts and for monitoring and evaluating healthcare industries; and the Department of the Treasury will continue to use the data to analyze depreciation and to research economic trends.


3.  Use of Improved Information Technology and Burden Reduction

The AIES Dress Rehearsal and the AIES will be collected using Centurion, the Census Bureau’s secure online survey collection tool.  The Centurion Welcome and Burden statement screens for the Dress Rehearsal can be viewed in Attachment B. The 2023 AIES Welcome and Burden statement screens have been consolidated in the electronic instrument for production and can be viewed in Attachment O. Centurion is designed to make the reporting process more flexible, secure, and convenient for respondents. The response-driven nature of the instrument also reduces respondent burden. Respondents can complete the entire survey in one session or work on the survey over several sessions. Centurion automatically saves the entered data when the user proceeds to the next screen, so the users can return later and pick up exactly where they previously left off. The data provided electronically by respondents are immediately available to the Census Bureau.  The use of this system also reduces paper usage as it eliminates paper forms in the initial and follow-up mailings.


4.  Efforts to Identify Duplication and Use of Similar Information

The Census Bureau makes a concerted effort on a continuing basis to investigate possible duplications both within the agency and outside the agency and to eliminate them whenever possible. Research with other government agencies, trade associations, and government and private sector data users (via telephone conversations, meetings, consultations, trade journal articles, and written correspondence) indicates the AIES data are not available from other sources on an ongoing basis.  Although the Census Bureau collects some similar information in other surveys, those collections are not suitable for the purposes the AIES serves.

One of the key features of the AIES is the ability, with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval, to add and delete questions based on the importance of the economic situation at the time. If it were not for this feature, these data items would need to be collected in separate surveys.  

The Congress granted the Census Bureau limited access to the information in the IRS and the Social Security Administration (SSA) files, which includes employment and payroll data.  The Census Bureau uses this information as input to models that impute other data items in lieu of mailing reports to many small businesses.  Other items, such as the cost of materials, are not identical to information requested by the IRS.  Even though there are similarities in the requested data, IRS does not insist on consistency and accuracy of each entry on the tax form if the taxable net income and the taxes paid are correct.  Furthermore, IRS will accept a figure on the cost of goods sold that includes labor as well as materials and supplies used.  The Census Bureau requires consistency in the data from firm to firm in order to publish valid statistical aggregations.

Quarterly revenue and expenses (expenses for tax-exempt organizations in selected industries only) data are collected in the QSS (OMB number 0607-0907) for all service industries except sub-sector 722 (Food Services and Drinking Places). The quarterly survey is voluntary and requests revenue and expenses data from a smaller sample of firms. The annually conducted AIES is mandatory. It collects more detailed items and is intended to serve as a benchmark for the quarterly estimates. 

Monthly sales and inventories data are collected in the MRTS (OMB No. 0607-0717).  The monthly survey is voluntary and requests sales, e-commerce, and end-of-month inventories data from a smaller sample of firms.  The mandatory annual program collects more detailed items and is intended to serve as a benchmark for the monthly sales, e-commerce, and end-of-month inventories estimates.  

Monthly sales and inventories data are collected in the MWTS (OMB No. 0607-0190). However, this monthly survey is voluntary and requests sales and end-of-month inventories data from a smaller sample of firms. The mandatory AIES, which occurs on an annual basis, collects more detailed items. It is intended to serve as a benchmark for the monthly sales and end-of-month inventories estimates.

Value of Shipments, unfilled orders, and inventories data are collected in the Manufacturers’ Shipments, Inventories, & Orders Survey (M3) (OMB No. 0607-0008). The monthly survey is voluntary and requests manufacturers’ value of shipments, new orders, unfilled orders, and inventories data from a smaller sample of firms. The monthly estimates are the only available data for use as trend series for evaluating current business conditions. The mandatory annual program collects more detailed items and is intended to serve as a benchmark for the value of shipments, inventories, and unfilled order estimates.

The annual program is also intended to provide comprehensive estimates in the period between Economic Census collections, which take place in years ending in “2” and “7”.


5. Impact on Small Businesses or Other Small Entities

While respondents are requested to return their data via the Internet, any data prepared and returned on a company's own spreadsheet is accepted. Respondents may also provide data directly over the phone. Instructions on the electronic worksheets state that although book figures are preferred, estimates are acceptable. We provide respondents with a toll-free number to call if they have questions or need assistance in completing their report.

The stratified sequential random sample design used for the AIES is a design that targets maintaining sampling fractions under 0.3 and no more than 0.5 in an effort to reduce respondent burden by minimizing the number of sampling units required to produce national and subnational level estimates.  The sample will be re-selected periodically, at which time most small- and medium-sized firms will be replaced in the sample by new firms.

Data are collected from complex firms (i.e., operating in multiple NAICS industries and/or multiple states) which are often the larger businesses, and a sample of remaining firms, which tent to be small- and medium-sized businesses within an industry.

Firms canvassed are not required to maintain additional records for the survey, nor do we expect participants to incur extra expenses to develop data not readily available. We make use of administrative data and alternative sources for nonresponse.


6.  Consequences of Collecting the Information Less Frequently

Data are collected on an annual basis. If the frequency were reduced, policy makers and other stakeholders would be increasingly misinformed and misdirected about changes in the economy related to rates and sources of growth in output, prices, productivity and trade.  Estimates produced by this annual collection are of vital importance to measuring the Nation’s wellbeing and economic growth. Less frequent collection of the data would adversely affect our ability to recognize and react to changes in the economy. 

Less frequent data collection would decrease the accuracy of trend estimators and negatively impact benchmarks for key economic indicator data products produced by the Census Bureau, specifically, QSS, MRTS, MWTS, and M3.  

Less frequent data collection would negatively impact other government agency programs as well. BEA would delay or lack accurate, timely measurements of these changing industries for use in its national income and product accounts and GDP estimates; BLS industry productivity measures would be compromised or delayed; FRB would lack data to produce estimates of investment indicators for monetary policy; and CMS would be forced to seek alternative data for the development of the National Health Expenditure Accounts. In addition, the ability of other government and private data users to identify industry trends would be impaired.

Less frequent data collection would have a major impact on the use of the Census Bureau’s BR as a universe sampling frame.  Information such as the opening of new locations, closing of locations, changes in locations, and changes in the Federal Employer Identification Numbers would not be up-to-date and would, therefore, reduce the completeness and accuracy of the BR.  Since the majority of the Census Bureau’s economic programs rely on the BR to plan and conduct their surveys, this situation would result in a reduction in the quality of the data products produced by these programs.


7. Special Circumstances Relating to the Guidelines of 5 CFR 1320.5

The data collection will be conducted in a manner consistent with OMB guidelines. There are no special circumstances.


8. Efforts to Consult Outside the Agency

The Census Bureau published a notice in the Federal Register on November 21, 2022 (vol 87, pg. 70775-70777), announcing plans to submit this request and inviting comment, as required under the Paperwork Reduction Act.  No comments were received in response to that notice.

The Census Bureau published a separate notice of consideration in the Federal Register on November 4, 2022 (vol 87, pg. 66643-66645), announcing plans to conduct the AIES and inviting comment.  No comments were received in response to that notice.

The Census Bureau published a 30-Day Notice in the Federal Register on April 4, 2023 (vol 88, pg. 19906-19907), for review and approval to conduct the AIES and inviting comment.  One comment was received from Andrew Reamer, Research Professor at the George Washington University (see Attachment K).  Mr. Reamer commented that the AIES should reduce respondent burden, increase data quality, and allow greater operational efficiencies.  In addition, the AIES may include new questions each year on policy-relevant topics such as technological advances, management and business practices, exporting practices, and globalization.  Mr. Reamer supports OMB’s approval of the Census Bureau’s request to conduct the AIES, with a recommended term of clearance: “In light of the Census Bureau’s finding in Supporting Statement Part B “that NAICS classifications can be unnatural or challenging for some businesses,” the Census Bureau shall carry out additional research to estimate the percentage of AIES respondents that select an incorrect NAICS code; estimate the extent to which differences in NAICS code assignments by the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the same establishments are due to misclassifications in the Census Business Register; and indicate to OMB within one year of ICR approval the Census Bureau’s plans for achieving a significant reduction in NAICS misclassification”. The Census Bureau thanks Mr. Reamer for his comments.  The Census Bureau supports additional research and identifying opportunities to reduce NAICS misclassification.  However, this effort should be conducted on a larger-scale and not confined to the AIES.  NAICS classification for companies selected in the AIES is driven by the Economic Census and the Census Bureau’s Business Register (BR).  Discussions are underway regarding a “data synchronization” effort between multiple Federal statistical agencies.  A plan for significantly reducing NAICS misclassification, however, would not likely be ready within one year of approval of the AIES.

Consultations were held between the Census Bureau and BEA, BLS, FRB, and CMS.  These consultations gathered information regarding the development of content that is planned to be collected and publication requirements for the AIES estimates.  Persons in which we had contact with during the consultations are listed in Attachment G.

The Census Bureau provided presentations on the AIES program at the Federal Committee on Statistical Methodology (FCSM) Research and Policy Conference in 2021, the Census Scientific Advisory Committee (CSAC) meeting in 2021, and at the Federal Economic Statistics Advisory Committee (FESAC) meetings in 2021 and 2022.


9. Explanation of Any Payment or Gift to Respondents

Respondents will not be paid or provided with gifts.


10. Assurance of Confidentiality and Reporting Requirement

Responses to the AIES are mandatory.  All information collected will be kept confidential based on the provisions of Title 13 U.S.C., Section 9.  Disclosures to respondents regarding our authority to collect the information, mandatory reporting, and confidentiality of responses will be contained in the introductory letters mailed to respondents and displayed on the collection instrument (See Attachments A and B).


11. Justification for Sensitive Questions 

The information to be collected is not of a sensitive nature and does not concern matters that are commonly considered private.


12. Estimates of Annualized Burden Hours and Costs

AIES Dress Rehearsal
Respondents | Average time to complete | Annual Burden  Hours
8, 470 | 3 hours,  5 5  minutes | 33, 206
50 debriefing interviews | 1 hour |         5 0
        TOTAL |  | 3 3 ,2 56



AIES
Respondents | Average time to complete | Annual Burden  Hours
38 5 ,9 40 * | 3 hours,  2 3  minutes * | 1, 30 3 , 6 3 6


Annual burden hours are based on the average burden hours per company.  Factors such as company size, complexity, and activity will affect the respondent’s actual time to complete the survey.  This estimate includes the time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed, and complete and review the survey.

At the completion of the Dress Rehearsal, burden was reevaluated.  It was determined that burden for the 2023 AIES will remain unchanged.  The Census Bureau evaluated burden using feedback from the Response Analysis Survey (RAS), instrument paradata, and respondent-reported burden from the collection instrument. Information regarding the Dress Rehearsal burden research can be found in Attachment N, AIES Dress Rehearsal Preliminary Findings and Recommendations.

Detailed sampling and burden estimates are provided in Attachments I and J.

13. Estimates of Other Total Annual Cost Burden to Respondents or Record Keepers

The Census Bureau does not expect respondents to incur any costs other than that of their time to respond. The information requested is of the type and scope normally carried in company records and no special hardware or accounting software or system is necessary to provide answers to this information collection. Therefore, respondents are not expected to incur any capital and start-up costs or system maintenance costs in responding. Furthermore, purchasing of outside accounting or information collection services, if performed by the respondent, is part of usual and customary business practices and not specifically required for this information collection.

Attachment I provides an estimate of respondent burden hours for the AIES Dress Rehearsal and Attachment J provides an estimate of respondent burden hours for the 2023 AIES covered by this request. The number of respondents is derived from the number of companies currently active on the Census Bureau’s BR and selected into the dress rehearsal and planned for selection into the 2023 AIES. Burden estimates assume a 100 percent response rate.

Estimates for number of hours per response are based on experience with conducting the legacy annual surveys in-scope to the AIES and our reasonable estimates of the time needed to preview the questions being asked, the accompanying instruction sheets, and other data collection materials; to gather, organize, and summarize information; and to record answers using the online reporting system.  Overall respondent burden for the AIES Dress Rehearsal is estimated at 33,305 hours and respondent cost is estimated to be $1,292,548. Overall respondent burden for the 2023 AIES is estimated at 1,303,636 hours and respondent cost is estimated to be $50,446,378. This cost estimate was calculated by using mean annual wage data from the 2021 BLS Occupational Employment Statistics (OES). The average hourly wage is that of an accountant in the corresponding sector. In circumstances where companies operate in multiple sectors, the national average hourly wage of an accountant was used.


14. Annualized Cost to the Federal Government

The total cost to the Federal Government for the AIES in fiscal year 2024 is expected to be $39 million, all borne by the Census Bureau. This includes expenses for sample design, data collection including nonresponse follow-up, data capture and processing, data review and editing, publication, equipment, overhead, and support staff. This cost is expected to remain relatively fixed over the upcoming three years.


15. Explanation for Program Changes or Adjustments

Approximately 1,000 large, multiunit companies (primarily covering out-of-scope enterprises) were added to the sample to update and maintain a centralized, multipurpose Business Register (BR).  The burden of the collection increased by 3,100 hours.


16. Plans for Tabulation and Publication and Project Time Schedule

Dress Rehearsal Data Collection Schedule
Advance Mailing | August 2023
Initial Mail Out | September 2023
Due Date Reminder | October 2023
Telephone Reminder | September  – October  2023
Email Follow-up | October 2023
First Mail Follow-up | October 2023
Telephone Follow-up | October  - November  2023
Debriefing Interviews | September-December 2023


Data collected in the AIES Dress Rehearsal will be passed back to the ARTS, AWTS, SAS, ACES, and M3UFO programs and will be included in tabulations along with the data collected by these annual programs.  The AIES will not produce a stand-alone data product that is exclusive of the AIES Dress Rehearsal data.


AIES Collection and Publication Schedule
Advance Mailing | February 2024
Initial Mail Out | March 2024
Due Date Reminder | April 2024
Email Follow-up | May through December 2024
Mail Follow-up | May through December 2024
Telephone Follow-up | May through December 2024
Edit, Analysis, Tabulation | June 2024-May 2025
Data Release | July 2025



17. Request not to Display OMB Expiration Date

The expiration date and OMB approval number will be displayed on the electronic collection instrument.


18. Exceptions to Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions

There are no exceptions to the certification.
PART word/footnotes.xml









PART word/endnotes.xml








