PART word/document.xml

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.  (Annotate the CFR parts/sections affected).

Under 49 U.S.C. 114, TSA has broad statutory authority to assess a security risk for any mode of transportation, develop security measures for dealing with that risk, and enforce compliance with those measures.  TSA’s mission includes the screening of individuals, accessible property, checked baggage, and cargo before boarding or loading on an aircraft to prevent or deter the carriage of any explosive, incendiary, or deadly or dangerous weapon on an aircraft.  49 U.S.C. 44901.  

Under TSA’s regulations, individuals are prohibited from carrying weapons, explosives, or incendiaries, on or about the individual’s person or accessible property during screening, when entering the sterile area of an airport, when attempting to board, or while onboard aircraft.  49 CFR 1540.111.  To ensure this requirement is met, individuals are required to submit to screening and inspection before entering a sterile area of an airport or boarding an aircraft.  49 CFR 1540.107.  

This prohibition, however, does not apply to law enforcement officers (LEOs) required to carry a firearm or other weapons while in the performance of law enforcement duties at the airport.  49 CFR 1540.111(b).  In addition, LEOs may fly armed if they meet the requirements of 49 CFR 1544.219.  This section of TSA’s regulations also includes requirements for being a federal, state, local, tribal, or territorial LEO; authorization to carry the weapon; training for flying armed; validation of the need for the weapon to be accessible aboard the aircraft; notification requirements; prohibitions related to alcoholic beverage consumption; and the appropriate location of the weapon while aboard the aircraft.

To facilitate the transit of LEOs into the sterile area for purposes of flying armed, TSA established a specialized screening process.  This process applies to all LEOs with specific exemptions enumerated in TSA’s screening standard operating procedures.  When a LEO presents to the checkpoint seeking entry into the sterile area, they are required to complete TSA Form 413A, Checkpoint Sign-In Log.  Collection of this information provides real-time situational awareness and is necessary in the event of a contingency on board the aircraft, such as but not limited to, a disruptive passenger, air piracy, or other threat to the safety and security of a commercial aircraft.

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

The information collected on TSA Form 413A includes identifying information on the LEOs; an affirmation that they are authorized to fly armed on official business and that they have an operational need to have their weapon accessible during the flight in accordance with 49 CFR part 1544; and identification of weapons they are carrying.  TSA is revising the information collection by changing the identification of weapons section of the form, “Carrying:” to “Are you carrying?” and adding the option “Unarmed LEO Escort.”  In addition, TSA is changing the question, “Completed Required LEO Flying Armed Training?” to “Completed Required TSA LEO Flying Armed Training?”  TSA is making the changes for programmatic needs to capture information of unarmed escorts and to differentiate the TSA course from local, state, and other LEO Flying Armed Training courses.

The information required by this form is used to document completion of the specialized screening process and to provide the TSA Security Operations Center and the Law Enforcement/Federal Air Marshals Service with situational awareness of armed LEO(s) presence on commercial flights conducted by 49 CFR parts 1544 and/or 1546 regulated parties (aircraft operators and foreign air carriers).  This real-time situational awareness is necessary in the event of a contingency on board the aircraft, such as but not limited to, a disruptive passenger, air piracy, or other threat to the safety and security of a commercial aircraft.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.]

TSA Form 413A is only used and available in hard-copy, paper-based form.  However, there is an electronic copy available for accessibility purposes.  Currently, TSA is developing an electronic version of the form for use by federal, state, local, tribal, or territorial law enforcement officers for completion prior to arrival at the airport.  Completion is pending contract delivery.

Usability Testing Requirement:
Pursuant to a 2023 DHS requirement, all Information Collection Requests must undergo usability testing (UX) prior to submission to OMB.  See Paperwork Reduction Act Burden Reduction Initiative Memorandum dated, September 29, 2023.  TSA completed UX on the TSA Form 413A to access time burden, plain language and ease of use.  The UX included six participants, two participants were familiar with the form, while the other four were vaguely familiar with it.  Participants were provided with sample data to utilize when completing the form.

TSA found that the average time burden to complete the form was 4 minutes, which is more than the current burden estimate of 1 minute.  As such, TSA has changed the current estimated burden to 4 minutes (0.0667 hours).

The participants found the form fairly easy to understand and to use.  One participant expressed that it took a second to figure out that they only had to fill out one section of the form.  Other than that, the participant considered it very easy to complete.  Another participant recommended rearranging the form and printing the sections on multiple pages rather than one.  TSA considered the recommendation but found that making these changes would increase the costs for airports to print and to shred Sensitive Security Information once the completed form reached its disposition schedule.

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

The information TSA needs for this program is not otherwise collected from this population.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize burden.

There is no significant burden to small businesses or entities as this collection is applicable to individuals only.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

The flying public and air safety could be put in jeopardy without the ability to verify that armed individuals who have entered the sterile area to board their flight or are onboard an aircraft are, in fact, LEOs who are authorized to fly armed on official business and have an operational need to have their weapon accessible during the flight.

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

This collection will be conducted in a manner consistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2)(i).  LEOs may need to fly armed on official business multiple times during the year and will need to complete TSA Form 413A more often than quarterly.

Describe efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

TSA published two Federal Register notices, with a 60-day and a 30-day comment period, soliciting comments on this collection of information request.  90 FR 36172 (August 1, 2025) and 91 FR 6244 (February 11, 2026), respectively.  TSA did not receive any comments on the notices.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

There is no offer of monetary or material value for this information collection.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

There are no assurances of confidentiality provided to the respondents for this information collection.  However, the collection is covered under a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), DHS/TSA/PIA-025 e-Law Enforcement Officer Logbook Program (August 31, 2009).

Provide additional justification for any questions of sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

There are no questions of a sensitive nature.

Provide estimates of hour and cost burdens of the collection of information.

TSA uses historical data from the LEO Flying Armed Application which vets and stores all National Law Enforcement Telecommunications System messages (known as flying while armed messages) submitted by state, local, and tribal LEOs.  Based on this data, TSA estimates an average annual number of 83,749 responses to this collection.  Each response consists of filling out a short form at the screening checkpoint.  TSA estimates that the time burden for this activity is 4 minute (0.0667 hours).  TSA estimates the average annual hour burden cost to the public to be 5,583 hours per year (16,750 hours over the 3-year period).  Respondents to this collection are state, local, tribal, and territorial LEOs travelling on official business, therefore TSA uses a fully-loaded hourly wage rate of $64.48 to estimate the hour burden cost.  TSA estimates the average annual hour burden cost to the public to be $359,990.  Table 1 summarizes these calculations.

Table 1 :  Public Hour Burden Cost
Number of Checkpoint Log Ins | Time Burden per Log In | Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $ 64.48
8 3 , 749 | 0.06666667 | 5,583.2 7 | $ 360 , 00 9. 05

Provide an estimate of annualized capital and start-up costs.

There are no capital or start-up costs associated with this collection.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

TSA airport screening personnel monitor, transport, and store completed checkpoint log-in forms.  TSA estimates it takes a Supervisory Transportation Security Officer approximately 1.5 minutes (0.025 hours) to monitor, transport, and store forms per LEO checking-in for their pre-flight screening.  TSA estimates an average annual hour burden of 2,094 hours (6,281 of the 3-year window).  A Supervisory Transportation Security Officer has a fully-loaded wage rate of $75.94.  TSA estimates an average annual hour burden cost to TSA of $158,997 ($476,991 over 3 years).  This collection does not involve other federal entities; therefore, the TSA cost is the federal cost.  Table 2 summarizes these calculations.

Table 2 :  TSA Hour Burden Cost
Number of Checkpoint Log Ins | Time Burden per Log In | Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $ 75.94
83,749 | 0.025 | 2 , 093.73 | $ 476 ,990.86

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

As a result of the UX, TSA increased the time burden of 1 minute to 4 minutes (0.0667 hours) for this collection.  The revision to the collection, as discussed in the response to Question 2, has a de minimis impact to the collection burden.

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

This information collection will not be published for statistical purposes.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

TSA will display the expiration date for OMB approval of this information collection.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

TSA does not request an exception to the certification of this information collection.
PART word/footnotes.xml



 Unarmed LEOs may escort individuals, including dignitaries, prisoners, deserters, detainees, or deportees to foreign destinations.
 The 3-year average was 83,749, per SME.
 A fully-loaded wage rate accounts for non-monetary compensation costs incurred by employers, such as health and retirement benefits.
 The mean hourly wage rate for State Police is $38.33, with employment levels of 67,750.  BLS.  May 2023 National Occupation Employment and Wage Estimates, State Government, including schools and hospitals.  NAICS 999200, Occupation Code 33-3050 Police Officers.  Last Modified April 3, 2024 (accessed: April 10, 2025), https://www.bls.gov/oes/2023/May/999201.htm.  The mean hourly wage rate for local police is $36.74, with employment levels of 562,320.  BLS.  May 2023 National Occupation Employment and Wage Estimates, local Government, including schools and hospitals.  NAICS 999300, Occupation Code 33-3050 Police Officers.  Last Modified April 3, 2024 (accessed: April 10, 2025), https://www.bls.gov/oes/2023/May/999301.htm.  TSA calculated a weighted average by employment to get a blended State and local police wage rate of $36.91.  $36.91 = ([$38.33 x 67,750] + [$36.74 x 562,320]) ÷ (67,750 + 562,320).  In order to calculate a fully-loaded wage rate for State and local police, TSA estimated a compensation factor of 1.74681239 for State and local Government workers, Services Occupation.  TSA divided total compensation of $47.95 by the wages and salaries component of compensation, $27.45 (1.74681239 = $47.95 ÷ $27.45).  BLS.  Employer Costs for Employee Compensation-December 2024.  Table 3.  Employer costs per hour worked for employee compensation and costs as a percent of total compensation: State and local Government workers.  Occupation Group: Services.  Last modified March 14, 2025 (accessed April 10, 2025), https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_03142025.htm.  TSA multiplies the unloaded blended wage rate for State and local police by the compensation factor to calculate a fully loaded average wage rate.  $64.48 = $36.91 x 1.74681239.
 Source: 2025 Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Compensation Plan Pay Chart by Paybands Step 5, including Washington-Baltimore-Arlington, DC-MD-WV-PA Locality Pay.