PART word/document.xml

SUPPORTING STATEMENT FOR
                                       CLAIMS & PAYMENT ACTIVITIES
       OMB CONTROL NO. 1205-0010


This information collection request (ICR) is seeking a revision to OMB 1205-0010, Claims and Payment Activities data collection. Revisions were made to the reporting instructions, form, and burden. 


JUSTIFICATION

1.  Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.

The ETA 5159 report provides important program information on claims taking and benefit payment activities under state/federal unemployment insurance laws. These data are needed for budget preparation and control, program planning and evaluation, personnel assignment, actuarial and program research, and for accounting to Congress and the public. This collection is authorized under the Social Security Act, Title III, Section 303(a)(6).

 2.  Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

The information collected on the ETA 5159 report is heavily used in the development of actuarial estimates of UI benefit outlays, claims levels, and administrative workloads needed for the federal budget process and legislative proposals. These data also allow for analysis of past and current labor market conditions.

The key data elements used for state UI benefit estimates include first payments, final payments, weeks claimed, weeks compensated, and benefits paid. State level benefit payments are also needed to make estimates of potential Title XII advances and loan repayments.

The national estimates of benefit outlays and loans, combined with revenue projections, are used to analyze the solvency of the federal accounts in the Unemployment Trust Fund (UTF) and to determine potential need for general revenue advances. Monthly benefit outlay estimates are also required for OMB A-11, Section 135 reporting and are utilized by the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor the Government’s cash operations among other uses.

With respect to workload projections, weeks claimed and initial claims are the items used from the ETA 5159. These projections are key elements in the formulation of budget requests to OMB for the State UI and ES Operations (SUIESO) appropriations.

Weeks claimed and initial claims are also key elements used for the allocation of base administrative funds to the states. Recent reported volumes for these elements are utilized in the production of state-by-state workload levels for these items, which feed into the process to allocate administrative funding to state workforce agencies. The data collected on this report are also the most frequently requested items from the public because they measure the flows into and out of the UI program and contain important UI program and economic measures. Monthly reporting is essential to assure accurate forecasting and timely labor market information.

The new data elements will expand the use cases for this report and will enhance the Department’s ability to measure and monitor equitable access in the UI system. The Department will also use the field for unique claimants to identify, on a monthly basis the number of unique individuals benefiting from the UI system. This will be a useful metric to understand the true impact of the system during different parts of the economic cycle and to analyze changes in program use over time. 

3.  Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also, describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.

States have been reporting this data electronically to the National Office for a number of years.  All states have available the ability to access the National Office UI reporting system which accepts files generated by a state computer thus eliminating the need to hand enter data.

 4.  Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Item A.2 above.

This data is not available from other sources in the detail needed. Weeks claimed and initial claims are collected on the weekly ETA 539 and ETA 538 (OMB no. 1205-0028) as well as the ETA 5159. Data from the ETA 539 is used to calculate the 13-week average insured unemployment rate trigger used for extended benefits. The ETA 538 provides advance figures on initial claims and the insured unemployed so that this economic data will be available to the public timely. However, the ETA 538 and ETA 539 reports do not contain the detailed information requested for the ETA 5159. While the ETA 5159 provides more detailed information than the ETA 538 or ETA 539, it does not provide the timeliness that the weekly ETA 538 and ETA 539 do.  

 5.  If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any methods used to minimize burden.

There is no impact on small businesses or other entities. The data that is being collected here is not from the businesses themselves, but from the agreements that have been entered into between the businesses and the states. As a result, the businesses that elect to enter into STC arrangements with state workforce agencies (SWAs) will not be contacted or impacted. The data that the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is proposing to collect would simply be from state records.

 6.  Describe the consequence to federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

This is the most basic report of the unemployment insurance system reporting. It contains the majority of the data elements used to determine state administrative budgets. Trends are much harder to predict with four data points a year (quarterly reports) rather than with twelve data points a year (monthly reports). Because the vast majority of states get this information from computer programs that are already available and at the initial intake of a weekly claim, the additional burden is negligible. Making twelve computer runs rather than four has very little impact on the state, while the loss of those data points would greatly weaken Department’s ability to accurately predict program activity. Furthermore, unlike burden on businesses or individuals, states are funded to collect and report this data through their annual UI administrative grant. Please refer to Attachment B for more information. 

7.  Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be conducted in a manner:

requiring respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly;

requiring respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in fewer than 30 days after receipt of it;

requiring respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any document;

requiring respondents to retain records, other than health, medical, government contract, grant-in-aid, or tax records for more than three years;

in connection with a statistical survey, that is not designed to produce valid and reliable results that can be generalized to the universe of study;

requiring the use of statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and approved by OMB;

that includes a pledge of confidentiality that is not supported by authority established in statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies that are consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data with other agencies for compatible confidential use; or

requiring respondents to submit proprietary trade secret, or other confidential information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to protect the information's confidentiality to the extent permitted by law.

The collection is consistent with 5 CFR 1320.5 except that monthly frequency is requested based on the rationale provided in item 6 above. The Department wishes to conduct more granular program analysis and measure and improve program performance using demographic data in evidence-based policy making in accordance with the Agency Management Plan and comply the latest policy from OMB (Statistical Policy Directive No. 15). 

 8.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d), soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.

Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or those who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years -- even if the collection-of-information activity is the same as in prior periods.  There may be circumstances that may preclude consultation in a specific situation.  These circumstances should be explained.

In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the public was allowed 60 days to review and comment through the Federal Register Notice posted on July 8, 2024, as 89 FR 55987.  

ETA received three public comments in response to the Federal Register notice that were supportive of the proposed changes detailed in this supporting statement and other documents as well as all suggesting the same expansion to the request. The three parties proposed collecting information on claimants’ preferred language, disability status, military status, and geography of residence (urban/suburban/rural) in order to provide additional insight on disparities in UI claims and payments.  ETA responded in October 2024 that language and disability status as report categories are under consideration as part of the ICR for the Characteristics of the Insured Unemployed ETA 203 Report (OMB No. 1205-0009). Recently separated members of the military are eligible for unemployment benefits under the Unemployment Compensation for Ex-Servicemembers program (UCX), while prior military status is otherwise unrelated to a claimant’s UC eligibility. 

ETA does not currently collect the individual, claimant-level data necessary to add a geography of residence report field. Also, the U.S. Census Bureau only provides methodologies and definitions for urban and rural areas but does not define “suburban”, which would create an added layer of complexity to the collection of this information in these aggregate level reports. In addition to the U.S. Census Bureau, ETA relied on OMB’s SPD-15 in developing these ICR revisions. As geography was not included in the most recent guidance published by these partner agencies and others, combined with the complexity of defining these categorizations in support of aggregate reporting, ETA does not believe it is appropriate to add these demographic categories to the report at this time.  

ETA consulted with three internal and external representatives to the agency involved in requesting the ETA 5159 Report (OMB No. 1205-0010). The consultation asked state workforce agency contacts for their feedback on burden estimates for information collection activities associated with requesting an ETA 5159 Report (OMB No. 1205-0010). None of the three representatives had any changes or comments on the estimated burden, so [Insert agency name] is proceeding with the initial estimates published in the 60-day notice. The individuals/organizations consulted about the information collection are listed in the table below.

Contact | Organization | Email | Phone
Breyanna Hanson | Wyoming Department of Workforce Services | breyanna.hanson@wyo.gov | (307) 233-4657
Samuel Havens | Washington Employment Security Department   | samuel.havens@esd.wa.gov | (360) 809- 8849
Brian McLoughlin | Ohio Department of Job and Family Services  | Brian.McLoughlin@jfs.ohio.gov | N/A


9.  Explain any decision to provide any payments or gifts to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

No payments are made to respondents.

10.  Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

The ETA 5159 reports contain no personal or confidential data. Any demographic data is collected and reported at the aggregate level; it is not personally identifiable to a particular claimant or individual. Report categories and definitions for demographic information follow those established in the ETA 203 report. 

11. Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.  This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent.

There are no questions of a sensitive nature.

12. Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information.  The statement should:

Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and an explanation of how the burden was estimated.  Unless directed to do so, agencies should not conduct special surveys to obtain information on which to base hour burden estimates.  Consultation with a sample (fewer than 10) of potential respondents is desirable.  If the hour burden on respondents is expected to vary widely because of differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of estimated hour burden, and explain the reasons for the variance.  Generally, estimates should not include burden hours for customary and usual business practices.

If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour burden estimates for each form.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for collections of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories.  The cost of contracting out or paying outside parties for information collection activities should not be included here.  Instead, this cost should be included in Item 14.

States use electronic reporting as a part of their normal data processing operations. The reporting involved in this collection does not involve manual tabulation, but pre-programmed and automated scripts that aggregate transactions that are stored in the state mainframe as a result of daily processing of claims from unemployed people in the state. Based on previous experience and ad hoc conversations with State Workforce Agency (SWA) personnel, it is estimated that the burden for running an extract from the state system, reviewing it, and uploading it into the ETA reporting system takes approximately two hours. This is independent of program type as the burden is largely administrative in generating the extract and reviewing it for quality assurance purposes.

ETA currently maintains 3 possible ETA 5159 reports subject to the PRA: the regular program, the Federal-state Extended benefits (EB) program, and the Workshare/STC. Though states only need to submit EB reports when there is activity and not all states participate in workshare, the maximum possible burden states could encounter would be submitting all 3 reports, 12 months a year, at two and a half hours per submittal based on the revised (additional sections) added to the regular report. ETA would estimate the maximum possible Federal reporting burden placed on states by ETA as a result of this collection to be:

53 states x 12 reports/year x 1 programs x 2.5 hours per submittal = 1,590 hours
   
53 states x 12 reports/year x 2 programs x 2 hours per submittal = 2,544 hours

Total hours for the 3 programs equal 4,134 hours
In monetizing the burden, ETA assumes SWA staff will typically prepare the responses.  Based on cost accounting systems, and for all program planning and policy purposes, ETA estimates that for FY 2025, the average wage of an SWA employee, including fringe costs, is $53 ETA believes the value of State respondent time to be:

4,134 hours x $53hour = $219,102.  

In addition to the reporting burden imposed by this collection, and as a direct result of requirements in PL 112-96, states report one additional cell on the workshare-specific ETA 5159 describing the number of employer agreements that states have.  This change produced an additional ongoing burden related to the data acquisition and record keeping requirement on employer agreements.  It was not envisioned that states previously had this information automated/electronically stored, however, given that the population of employers participating in this program was relatively steady, it was envisioned that once states have dealt with any uptake issue as a result of Federal Incentives that the basic additional reporting burden of this added element would represent an additional 5 hours per report per state.  Please note that this would only affect the workshare-specific ETA 5159, not any of the other reports. 

53 states x 12 reports/year x 1 program (STC) x 5 hours per submittal = 3,180 hours

3,180 hours x $ 53/hour = $168,540


Estimated Annualized Respondent Cost and Hour Burden
Activity | No.  of Respondents | No. of Responses  per  Respondent | Total Responses | Average Burden (H our s) | Total Burden (Hours) | Hourly Wage Rate | Total Burden Cost
Reporting of Regular 5159 | 53 | 12 | 636 | 2 .5 | 1, 590 | $ 5 3 | $ 8 4,270
Reporting of EB 5159 | 53 | 12 | 636 | 2 | 1,272 | $ 5 3 | $ 6 7,416
Reporting of STC 5159 | 53 | 12 | 636 | 2 | 1,272 | $ 5 3 | $ 67,416
Record Keeping Burden for ongoing STC Element | 53 | 12 | 636 | 5 | 3,180 | $ 5 3 | $ 1 68,540
Unduplicated Totals | -- | -- | 2,544 | -- | 7,314 | -- | $ 387,642
*Source: The hourly rate is computed by dividing the FY 2025 national average PS/PB annual salary for state staff as provided for through the distribution of state UI administrative grants 
(https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/advisories/uipl-19-24)by the average number of hours worked in a year (1,711).  For FY 2024, this calculation is:  $90,282 / 1,711= $53.
**The number of respondents includes all 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands.

13.  Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the collection of information.  (Do not include the cost of any hour burden shown in Items 12 and 14).

The cost estimate should be split into two components:  (a) a total capital
and start up cost component (annualized over its expected useful life); and (b) a
total operation and maintenance and purchase of service component.  
The estimates should take into account costs associated with generating, 
maintaining, and disclosing or providing the information.  Include descriptions of 
methods used to estimate major cost factors including system and technology acquisition, expected useful life of capital equipment, the discount rate(s), and the time period over which costs will be incurred.  Capital and start-up costs include, among other items, preparations for collecting information such as purchasing computers and software; monitoring, sampling, drilling and testing equipment; and record storage facilities.

If cost estimates are expected to vary widely, agencies should present ranges of cost burdens and explain the reasons for the variance.  The cost of purchasing or contracting out information collection services should be a part of this cost burden estimate.  In developing cost burden estimates, agencies may consult with a sample of respondents (fewer than 10), utilize the 60-day pre-OMB submission public comment process and use existing economic or regulatory impact analysis associated with the rulemaking containing the information collection, as appropriate.

Generally, estimates should not include purchases of equipment or services, or portions thereof, made: (1) prior to October 1, 1995, (2) to achieve regulatory compliance with requirements not associated with the information collection, (3) for reasons other than to provide information or keep records for the government, or (4) as part of customary and usual business or private practices.

There are no costs to respondents associated with this collection. UI required reports are paid for by monies allocated to states for administration from the Federal Government. There are no breakouts for specific reports. This is a well-established report so there are no start-up costs.

14.  Provide estimates of the annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.  Agencies also may aggregate cost estimates from Items 12, 13, and 14 into a single table.

Although no staff is required to process this report, ETA has budgeted for FY 25 $920,436.80 to operate and maintain the Unemployment Insurance Required Reports system. Including the subject ICR, this reporting system supports 30 information collections. For administrative purposes, each information collection is assumed to contribute an equal share of the cost for supporting the entire system; therefore, the cost allocated to this ICR is estimated to be $30,681.22 ($920,436.80 system cost/30 information collections).

15.Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments.

The proposed changes will expand the number of data cells and nature of the data collected on payments and claims activities, which increases the time associated to program, populate, and submit the report(s) to ETA. This change in scope to the report is reflected in a slight increase in burden after consultation with multiple state workforce agencies’ reporting units. The additional changes to the report will increase the estimated burden of the regular ETA 5159 from 120 minutes to 150 minutes. The new data fields will allow the Department to conduct more program performance analysis and to implement a Government Accountability Office recommendation for the program office to collect data on the number of unique claimants, which is not currently a data element collected by the Unemployment Insurance Required Reports system.  

16. For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulations, and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

Results are published in a complete series through the UI Data Downloads resource (https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/DataDownloads.asp#ETA_5159), a Monthly Program Reports application (https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/claimssum.asp), the quarterly UI Data Summary (https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/data_summary/DataSum.asp), and in the annual Handbook 394, Unemployment Insurance Program and Financial Data Report (https://oui.doleta.gov/unemploy/hb394.asp); also, much data is provided in response to special requests. Additional publications may be developed with new information collected through the proposed revisions; however no new publications are under development at this time.

17.  If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

ETA displays the OMB control number and expiration date on the ETA 5159 form that is shown to users. A menu option in the UI electronic reporting system provides access to a complete listing of OMB control numbers and expiration dates for all required reports, including the ETA 5159.

18.  Explain each exception to the certification statement.

There are no exceptions.



B. COLLECTIONS OF INFORMATON EMPLOYING STATISTICAL METHODS.
This information collection does not employ statistical methods.