PART word/document.xml

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.  (Annotate the CFR parts/sections affected).

Under the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is responsible for security in all modes of transportation, including screening operations for passenger air transportation and for carrying out such other duties it considers appropriate relating to transportation security.  Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Directive 262-05, “Information Sharing and Safeguarding.”  The directive established requirements, standards, and assigned responsibilities for DHS agencies to implement an insider threat detection and prevention program.  The Instruction to the Directive defines “Insider Threat” and “Insider.”  An “insider” is any person who has or who had authorized access to any DHS facility, information, equipment, network, or system.  An “Insider Threat” is defined as the threat that an insider will use his or her authorized access, wittingly or unwittingly, to do harm to the Department's mission, resources, personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems.

TSA created the Insider Threat Program in compliance with the directive and instruction’s requirements for DHS components.  The program’s purpose is to detect, deter, and mitigate threats that an individual with authorized access to sensitive areas and/or information, wittingly or unwittingly misuse or allow others to misuse this access to exploit vulnerabilities in an effort to compromise security, facilitate criminal activity, terrorism, or other illicit actions that inflict harm to people, organizations, the transportation system, or national security, including transportation sector personnel, operations, information, systems and critical infrastructure.  The program operates as a partnership among TSA, aviation, mass transit, and maritime sectors, as well as with state and local law enforcement.

To ensure consistency with the directive, TSA created the Insider Threat Incident Reporting tool, which collects information on insider threats.  TSA is requesting the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)’s approval of the Insider Threat Incident Reporting Tool as a Common Form to permit Federal agency users beyond the agency that created the form (e.g., DHS or U.S. Office of Personnel Management) to streamline the information collection process in coordination with OMB.

Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

The Insider Threat Incident Reporting tool is an online application where the public can submit inquiries regarding potential insider threats by providing personal information and other specific data regarding the person or situation deemed to be an insider threat.  TSA uses the information collected to review the potential insider threats and to determine if further evaluation and follow-up is necessary.  The collection may include individual personal information and/or appearance, and the details surrounding the situation alleged to be the potential insider threat.  TSA requires submitters to attest that all information submitted is true.

The likely respondents to this proposed information collection are any person who has or who had authorized access to any DHS facility, information, equipment, network, or system, including individuals detailed or assigned to DHS.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.
In compliance with the Government Paperwork Elimination Act, the collection uses an online web tool, available at https://www.tsa.gov/travel/insider-threat.  All submissions occur   through a secure internal network drive accessible only by authorized personnel.
Usability Testing Requirement: Pursuant to a 2023 DHS requirement, all Information Collection Requests must undergo usability testing prior to submission to OMB.  See DHS Fiscal Year 2024 Burden Reduction Plan Memorandum dated, September 29, 2023.  TSA completed usability testing on the online submission form to determine the use of plain language.  There were four participants, three were familiar with the form and one was unfamiliar.  One participant recommended a change to the language in the “Impact Details” section.  TSA updated the section accordingly.  No further changes were made to the form.

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

There is no specific or similar information currently collected by TSA that can be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described above.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize burden.

This collection does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses.

Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

If the collection of information is not conducted, TSA will not be in compliance with DHS Directive 262-05, “Information Sharing and Safeguarding” and other associated requirements and will be unable to fulfill its mission statement of deterring, detecting and mitigating insider threats to TSA’s personnel, operations, information, and critical infrastructure.

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

TSA will conduct this collection in a manner consistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

Describe efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

TSA published a notice in the Federal Register, with a 60-day period for soliciting comments, on April 23, 2026 (See 91 FR 21831), and a 30-day notice, on July 13, 2026 (See 91 FR 42972).  TSA received no comments in reply to the notices.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

TSA will not provide any payment or gifts to respondents for this information collection.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

Although TSA will not provide any assurances of confidentiality to respondents, information collected that is determined by TSA to be Sensitive Security Information, in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520, will be protected as such.  This information collection is covered under Privacy Impact Assessments: DHS/TSA/PIA-048 Insider Threat Unit Database (April 4, 2018) and DHS/ALL/PIA-052 Insider Threat Program (June 16, 2020).  In addition, to the extent applicable the collection is covered by the following System of Records Notices, DHS/TSA-001 Transportation Security Enforcement Record System, and DHS/ALL-038 Insider Threat Program.  See 83 FR 43888 (August 28, 2018) and 85 FR 13914 (March 10, 2020), respectively.

Provide additional justification for any questions of sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

This information collection does not involve any questions of a sensitive nature.

Provide estimates of hour and cost burdens of the collection of information.

TSA estimates that an average of approximately 312 respondents will be completing the Insider Threat Incident Reporting Tool.  TSA estimates that it takes approximately 10 minutes (0.16667 hours) to complete and submit the report.  TSA uses the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $45.38 to estimate the respondents’ value of time (opportunity cost).

TSA estimates that the total annual burden to complete the reporting is 52 hours, resulting in an annual hour burden cost of $2,360 ($7,079 over 3 years).  Table 1 shows the hour burden and cost estimation.

Table 1: Public Hour Burden and Cost Estimation |  | 
  | Annual Number of Respondents | Time to Complete Online Form (hours) | Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
 | A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $45.38
Completing  Insider Threat  Incident  Report ing Tool | 312 | 0.1 6 667 | 52 | $2,360
Total | 312 |   | 52 | $2,360


Provide an estimate of annualized capital and start-up costs.

There are no additional costs to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the information collection.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

TSA estimates it takes an average of 15 minutes (0.25 hours) to process the Insider Threat Incident Report.  TSA uses the fully loaded average hourly wage rate of $88.39, to estimate TSA employees’ cost to process the reports.

TSA estimates that TSA (or the Federal government) incurs a total annual burden of 78 hours to process the Insider Threat Incident Reports, resulting in an annual hour burden cost of $6,894 ($20,683 over 3 years).  Table 2 shows TSA hour burden and cost estimation.

Table 2: TSA Hour Burden and Cost Estimation |  | 
  | Annual Number of Respondents | Time to Review Form (hours) | Annual Hour Burden | Annual Hour Burden Cost
 | A | B | C = A x B | D = C x $88.39
Processing Insider Threat  Incident  Report | 312 | 0.25 | 78 | $6,894
Total | 312 |   | 78 | $6,894

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

This is a new collection.

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

This information collection will not be published for statistical purposes.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

Not applicable.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

TSA is not seeking any exceptions to the certification requirement.
PART word/footnotes.xml



 See sec. 101(a) of Aviation and Transportation Security Act, Pub. L. 107-71 (115 Stat. 597-598, Nov. 19, 2001), as codified at 49 U.S.C. 114(d) and (f).  See also Memorandum, Expanding the Scope of the Department of Homeland Security Insider Threat Program (submitted Dec. 7, 2016, approved Jan. 3, 2017); Presidential Memorandum, National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs (Nov. 21, 2012); Executive Order 13587, Structural Reforms To Improve the Security of Classified Networks and the Responsible Sharing and Safeguarding of Classified Information, 76 FR 63811 (October 7, 2011).
 Effective October 1, 2019.
 See DHS Instruction 262-05-002, “Insider Threat Program,” issued October 1, 2019; and DHS Instruction 262-05-002-01, “Insider Threat Information Sharing Guide,” issued October 11, 2019.
 TSA uses the total compensation cost for all full-time private industry workers.  For all full-time private industry workers, hourly total compensation is $45.38.  BLS, News Release, Employer Costs for Employee Compensation – March 2025. Table 4.  Employer Costs for Employee Compensation for private industry workers by occupational and industry group [Mar.2025]  Release date June 13, 2025.  extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_06132025.pdf.  Retrieved September 8, 2025.
 
 The total compensation for I Band (equivalent to GS –13) TSA personnel located at TSA HQ in Springfield, VA is $184,465 per year (including locality adjustment and other benefits).  Source: 2025 TSA Compensation Plan Pay Chart by Paybands Step 5, including Washington-Baltimore-Arlington, DC-MD-WV-PA Locality Pay.  $88.39 = $184,465 ÷ 2087 annual work hours.