PART word/document.xml

Supporting Statement For
Home Mortgage DisCLOSURE ACT (REGULATION c)
OMB CONTROL NO.: 3170-0008


A.  Justification

1.  Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), 12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq., which is implemented by Regulation C, 12 CFR Part 1003, requires certain depository institutions and for-profit, non-depository institutions (collectively referred to as financial institutions) to collect, report, and disclose data about originations and purchases of mortgage loans, as well as mortgage loan applications that do not result in originations.  Data reported under HMDA represent the primary data source for Congress and public officials, industry, advocates, researchers, and economists studying and analyzing trends in the mortgage market for a variety of purposes, including general market and economic monitoring, as well as assessing housing needs, public investment, and possible discrimination.  

Financial institutions are required to report HMDA data annually to the Bureau or to the appropriate Federal agency and beginning in 2020, certain financial institutions were required to report HMDA data quarterly to the Bureau or appropriate Federal agency.  Annual HMDA data submitted to the Bureau is made available to the public via the Bureau’s website, and financial institutions provide at their offices a written notice that conveys that the institution’s loan/application register, as modified by the Bureau to protect applicant and borrower privacy, may be obtained on the Bureau’s website.  In addition, all reportable transactions must be recorded on a loan/application register within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter in which final action is taken on a loan application register. 

2.  Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

HMDA’s purposes are as follows:
to help determine whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of their communities;
to assist public officials in distributing public-section investment so as to attract private investment to areas where it is needed; and 
to assist in identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing antidiscrimination statutes.  

The information collections, which include reporting, recordkeeping, and disclosure requirements, assist Congress and public officials, community groups, academics, industry, advocates, researchers, and economists in determining whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of their communities, targeting public investment to attract private investment in communities, and identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforce antidiscrimination statutes.  

Recordkeeping

Section 1003.4(a) of Regulation C requires an entity that meets the definition of financial institution under § 1003.2(g) to collect data regarding applications for covered loans that it receives, covered loans that it originates, and covered loans that it purchases for each calendar year.  The data to be collected are described in Regulation C, 12 CFR 1003.4.

Reporting

Section 1003.5(a) of Regulation C requires that by March 1 following the calendar year for which data are collected and recorded as required by § 1003.4, a financial institution must submit its loan/application register in electronic format to the appropriate Federal agency.  Section 1003.5(a)(4) provides that appropriate Federal agency means the appropriate agency for the financial institution as determined pursuant to section 304(h)(2) of HMDA (12 U.S.C. 2803(h)(2) or, with respect to a financial institution subject to the Bureau’s supervisory authority under section 1025(a) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5515(a)), the Bureau.  Effective January 1, 2020, § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) required that within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter except the fourth quarter, a financial institution that reported for the preceding calendar year at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, must submit to the appropriate Federal agency its quarterly loan/application register required to be recorded for that quarter.  

Disclosure

Section 1003.5(b)(2) of Regulation C requires that a financial institution provide at its offices a written notice that conveys that the institution’s disclosure statement may be obtained on the Bureau’s website.  In addition, § 1003.5(c) requires that a financial institution provide at its offices a written notice that conveys that the institution’s loan/application register, as modified by the Bureau to protect applicant and borrower privacy, may be obtained on the Bureau’s website.

3.  Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also, describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.

Regulation C requires financial institutions to submit HMDA data in electronic form.  Since 2015, the Bureau implemented several operational improvements in the past few years to facilitate this process.  For example, the Bureau developed the HMDA Platform, a web-based submission tool that enables financial institutions to upload their HMDA data, review edits, certify data accuracy and submit data for the filing year.  The Bureau also improved the points of contact processes for help inquiries.  In addition, the Bureau developed a tool that financial institutions with small volumes of HMDA data can use to create an electronic file for submission to the HMDA Platform and streamlined the submission and validation process to make it more efficient.

4.  Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Item A.2 above.

Substantially, all information collected is not otherwise available.  No privately produced loan-level mortgage databases with comprehensive national coverage exist that are easily accessible by the public.  Private data vendors offer a few large databases for sale, but these are typically collected via either the largest servicers or “securitizers” and therefore none match the near-universal coverage of the HMDA data.  Notably, unlike HMDA, almost all commercially available loan-level databases provided by vendors are for originated loans only and do not include applications that did not result in an origination.

5.  If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any methods used to minimize burden.

In February 2014, the Bureau convened a Small Business Review Panel regarding burden minimization.  The Bureau also solicited feedback through the public comment period on the October 2015 Rule.  Regulation C, in its current form, reflects several changes designed to further this purpose.  First, the Bureau provided substantial relief to small entities by increasing the loan volume thresholds applicable to closed-end mortgage loans.  Second, the Bureau indicated that financial institutions shall make available to the public notices that clearly convey that the institution’s disclosure statement and modified loan/application register may be obtained on the Bureau’s website.  This approach relieves all financial institutions, including small entities, of the obligation to provide the disclosure statement and modified loan/application register to the public directly.  Third, the Bureau adopted revisions to transactional coverage criteria that benefits small entities.  As one example of this benefit, the revisions to the transactional coverage criteria eliminated reporting of unsecured home improvement loans.  This change reduced reporting burden to small entities to the extent that these entities offer unsecured home improvement products.  Finally, the Bureau made operational enhancements and modifications to improve the data submission process (as described in Question #3).  The Bureau’s share of respondents does not include small entities.

6.  Describe the consequence to federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden. 

HMDA requires information to be collected on both an annual and quarterly basis and requires annual data reporting by all covered financial institutions.  The October 2015 Rule added the requirement that certain large volume financial institutions report their HMDA data on a quarterly basis.  Not collecting this information or collecting these data less frequently would not meet HMDA’s statutory requirements and compromise the Bureau’s mission regarding the mortgage market.  In addition, this information is necessary to realize the benefits of HMDA and to fulfill the statutory purposes: (1) to help determine whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of the communities in which they are located; (2) to assist public officials in their determination of the distribution of public sector investments in a manner designed to improve the private investment environment; and (3) to assist in identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing antidiscrimination statutes.

7.  Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be conducted in a manner:
requiring respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly;
requiring respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in fewer than 30 days after receipt of it;
requiring respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any document;
requiring respondents to retain records, other than health, medical, government contract, grant-in-aid, or tax records for more than three years;
in connection with a statistical survey, that is not designed to produce valid and reliable results that can be generalized to the universe of study;
requiring the use of statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and approved by OMB;
that includes a pledge of confidentially that is not supported by authority established in statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies that are consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data with other agencies for compatible confidential use; or
requiring respondents to submit proprietary trade secret, or other confidential information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to protect the information's confidentially to the extent permitted by law.

No special circumstances require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

Regulation C requires that all reportable transactions be recorded on the financial institution’s loan/application register within thirty calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter in which final action is taken.  Regulation C further specifies that a financial institution shall retain a copy of its submitted loan/application register for its records for at least three years.  These retention provisions are required by Congress, which are provided in HMDA section 304(c) that information required to be compiled and made available under HMDA section 304, other than loan application register information required under section 304(j), must be maintained and made available for a period of five years.  HMDA section 304(j)(6) requires that loan application register information for any year shall be maintained and made available, upon request, for three years.

8.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d), soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments.   Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.

Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or those who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years -- even if the collection-of-information activity is the same as in prior periods.  There may be circumstances that may preclude consultation in a specific situation.  These circumstances should be explained.

In accordance with 5 CFR §1320.8(d)(1), the Bureau has published a notice in Federal Register that provides the public 60 calendar days to comment on the extension of reporting requirements contained within OMB Control No. 3170-0008.  The Bureau received three comments that supported the information collection required by Regulation C.  The three commenters (Iowa Bankers Association, America’s Credit Union and the Center for Regulatory Freedom) made recommendations to reduce unnecessary information collection burden on respondents as well as improving data quality of the information that was being collected.  Addressing these comments would require further action from the Bureau that is beyond the scope of the information collection extension.  The Bureau will continue to consider these types of actions, consistent with its rulemaking priorities and statutory requirements/objectives.

Also, in accordance with 5 CFR §1320.5(a)(1)(iv), the Bureau has also published a notice in the Federal Register providing the public 30 days to comment on reporting requirements contained within this information collection request.

9.  Explain any decision to provide any payments or gifts to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

The information collection does not provide for making payments or gifts to respondents.

10.  Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

Respondents are financial institutions for which the Bureau provides no assurances of confidentiality.  In December 2018, the Bureau issued final policy guidance describing the modifications the Bureau intended to apply to HMDA data reported by financial institutions at the loan level before the data are made available to the public.  The policy guidance applies to HMDA data collected by financial institutions in or after 2018 and made available to the public beginning in 2019.  In the policy guidance, the Bureau stated that it would modify the public loan-level data by excluding certain fields and reduce the precision of other data fields.  In the Bureau’s determination, these modifications to how the Bureau stores and publishes the reported data will reduce risks to applicant and borrower privacy and appropriately balance them with the benefits of disclosure in light of HMDA’s purposes.  

The Bureau stated in the final policy guidance it intends to modify the public loan-level HMDA data by excluding certain fields and reducing the provision of the other fields.  The Bureau believes that these modifications will reduce risks to applicant and borrower privacy and appropriately balance them with the benefits of disclosure in light of HMDA’s purposes.  Data not made publicly available are considered confidential under the Bureau’s confidentiality regulations, 12 CFR part 1070 et seq., and the Freedom of Information Act.  Information that is not disclosed is protected from unauthorized disclosure by several data security safeguards, including privacy and security awareness training for each individual with internal access to the system, technical access controls, and breach notification processes and plans.  More information regarding the privacy and security of the HMDA dataset can be found in the current Privacy Impact Assessment published by the Bureau.  

The Bureau will exclude the following from the public loan-level HMDA data:
Universal loan identifier or non-universal loan identifier;
Application data;
Action taken date;
Property address;
Credit score relied on in making the credit decision;
Unique identifier assigned by the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry for the mortgage loan originator;
Result generated by the automated underwriting system; and
Free-form text fields for:  race, ethnicity, name and version of credit scoring model, reason for denial, and name of automated underwriting system fields.

The Bureau will reduce the precision of most of the values reported for the following:
Loan amount;
Age;
Debt-to-income ratio;
Property value; and
Total units.

11.  Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.  This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent.

The information collection includes personal information regarding mortgage applicants or borrowers, such as unique loan identifier, address, race/ethnicity, sex, age, annual income, and credit score.  This information is necessary to realize the benefits of HMDA and to fulfill the statutory purposes: (1) to help determine whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of the communities in which they are located; (2) to assist public officials in their determination of the distribution of public sector investments in a manner designed to improve the private investment environment; and (3) to assist in identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing antidiscrimination statutes.

A system of records notice is not applicable because information is not retrieved by direct identifier.

12.  Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information.  The statement should:
Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and an explanation of how the burden was estimated.  Unless directed to do so, agencies should not conduct special surveys to obtain information on which to base hour burden estimates.  Consultation with a sample (fewer than 10) of potential respondents is desirable.  If the hour burden on respondents is expected to vary widely because of differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of estimated hour burden, and explain the reasons for the variance.  General, estimates should not include burden hours for customary and usual business practices.
If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour burden estimates for each form.
Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for collections of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories.  The cost of contracting out or paying outside parties for information collection activities should not be included here.  Instead, this cost should be included in Item 14.

The vast majority of depository institutions are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF).  We estimate that there are 167 depository institutions potentially subject to Regulation I, and thus required to provide the above noted disclosures in their advertising and obtain written acknowledgement of the institution’s lack of federal insurance for their accounts.  The Bureau also estimates that approximately one depository institution will convert from federal insurance to non-federal insurance per year and will incur one-time costs to provide disclosures on their premises, account statements, and other documents specified above.  This depository institution will also incur a one-time cost to attempt to receive written acknowledgement from its current accountholders.  

The Bureau generally shares burden with other federal regulators who have enforcement authority over the same entities.  Very few entities are required to comply with the disclosure requirements of Regulation I.  Thus, for convenience, the Bureau allocates to itself all burden associated with Regulation I.  This burden is as follows:

Information Collection Requirement | No. of Respondents | Type of IC | Frequency | Annual Responses | Average Response Time (hours) | Annual Burden Hours | Hourly Costs
HMDA Reporting Requirements | 136 | Reporting | 1 | 136 | 6,776 | 921,536 | $ 61,125,482
Recordkeeping Requirements | 136 | Recordkeeping | 1 | 136 | 4,330 | 5 88,880 | $ 39,060,410
Third Party Disclosure requirements | 136 | Third party disclosures | 1 | 136 | 4 | 544 | $ 36,083
TOTAL | 136 |  |  | 136 |  | 1, 510,960   | $ 100,221,975


13.  Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or record keepers resulting from the collection of information.  (Do not include the cost of any hour burden shown in Items 12 and 14).

There should be minimal annualized costs to keep the required acknowledgement forms on file and insert the necessary language into all advertisements.  Covered entities will incur a small material cost to obtain the written disclosures.  Depository institutions who convert from federal insurance to non-federal insurance will incur costs to mail disclosures with return postage for acknowledgements.  It is the Bureau’s understanding that the only private insurer of depository institutions provides disclosure signage for its customers.  Therefore, there will be minimal costs to depository institutions who convert to private insurance to develop and display disclosures on their premises.  If an institution instead converts to another form of insurance, such as state insurance, that institution would incur minimal costs to display disclosures on its premises.  Accordingly, the Bureau estimates the burden as follows:

Description of Costs (O&M) | Per Unit Costs | Quantity | Costs
Annual Software Licensing Fees for HMS software | $10,114 | 136 | $1,37 5,504
Obtaining an LEI (one-time cost, already incurred for Bureau respondents) | $0 | 136 | $0
LEI Annual Renewal | $133 | 136 | $18, 088
TOTAL |  | 136 | $1,3 93,592

14.  Provide estimates of the annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.  Agencies also may aggregate cost estimates from Items 12, 13, and 14 into a single table.

The collection, storage and reporting of the data in this information collection requires the services of three full-time Bureau employees and approximate $861,728 in annual costs for contracting and O&M support

15.  Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments.

The Bureau is making no program changes to this information collection.

The increase annual cost burden associated with annual burden hours is due to the increase in the mean hourly wage of compliance officers in the financial sector.

16.  For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulations, and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

The information is collected for use by the Bureau’s examination program and for disclosure to the public after deletion of certain sensitive data elements.

17.  If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

The information collection is not collected in a manner that allows the display of the current expiration date.  However, the expiration date can be found under the “Information Collections under Review” section of www.reginfo.gov (https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain).

18.  Explain each exception to the certification statement.

The Bureau certifies that this collection of information is consistent with the requirements of 5 CFR 1320.9, and the related provisions of 5 CFR 1320.8(b)(3) and is not seeking an exemption to these certification requirements.

PART B – COLLECTIONS OF INFORMATION USING STATISTICAL METHODS

Not applicable. The information collections contained in 12 CFR 1009 do not involve the use of statistical methods.

PART word/footnotes.xml



 An entity may be exempted from all or some of Regulation C requirements. 12 CFR § 1003.3(a) and (d).
 90 FR 57184 (published on 12/10/2025).
 91 FR 8842 (published on 2/24/2026; comment period ends on 3/26/2026).
 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) Data Collection, https://s3.amazonaws.com/files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_hmda-data-collection-pia_022018.pdf.
 See 12 CFR 1009.7 (“Compliance with the requirements of this part shall be enforced under the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, Public Law 111-203, title X, 124 Stat. 1955, by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, and under the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq, by the Federal Trade Commission.”).  In a 2017 report on private deposit insurance, the GAO noted, “CFPB and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) are the federal entities responsible for enforcing these requirements” (Private Deposit Insurance:  Credit Unions Largely Complied with Disclosure Rules, but Rules Should Be Clarified, GAO-17-259, page 6, available at https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-17-259).  
 Calculated using occupational data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics on the mean hourly wage for compliance officers in the financial service sector (occupation code 13-1041) of $41.46 per hour and assuming a “fully loaded” rate of $66.33. BLS statistics can be found here https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm#13-0000.