PART word/document.xml
SUPPORTING STATEMENT A
U.S. Department of Commerce
U.S. Census Bureau
Annual Business Survey
OMB Control No. 0607-1004

Abstract
The Annual Business Survey (ABS) measures business demographics, research and development (R&D), innovation, and critical and emerging technologies among businesses in the United States. The ABS is a joint statistical project between the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) within the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Census Bureau.
The ABS combines Census Bureau firm-level collections to reduce respondent burden, increase data quality, and reduce operational costs. The ABS is designed to be adaptive, allowing content to be rotated on and off the survey based on topics of relevance. The current plan for future ABS Content can be found in Attachment F.
Content previously collected on the Business Enterprise Research and Development (BERD) survey will now be collected as part of the Annual Business Survey. The BERD survey will no longer be fielded independently.  The Census Bureau and NCSES worked collaboratively to determine necessary changes due to the merger, as discussed in the jointly drafted Survey Operations Plan (Attachment B).
Combining the ABS and BERD instruments also required a cognitive evaluation to primarily assess the effect of the merged request, overall respondent burden, and order effects. Results of the cognitive evaluation found that respondents preferred the consolidated request and did not express concern about this change.  Respondents also wanted to understand the purpose and use of the data requested prior to responding.  (Response materials (i.e. letters and survey website) provide information on the purpose and use of the ABS.) Results of the cognitive evaluation did not reveal substantive changes needed to the merged instrument.  However, evaluations did result in recommendations for some questions that will be discussed and considered collaboratively by the two agencies.  These changes will be implemented in future iterations of the survey with OMB approval. Other minor refinements and corrections were made to the instrument in alignment with survey methodology and data collection best practices; however, these were not as a direct result of the cognitive evaluation. Findings can be found in Attachment A.
R&D data collected from for-profit businesses and nonprofit organizations account for nearly 75 percent of the total U.S. R&D expenditures each year. A consistent R&D information base is essential to government officials formulating public policy, industry personnel involved in corporate planning, and members of the academic community conducting research.
Prior iterations of the ABS used the collection year as part of the survey name. Moving forward and to be discernible from the past ABS, the survey will omit the mention of the collection year and use the data reference year in all collection materials, informational documentation, and publication tables. As a result the data collection that starts in June of 2026 will be referred to as the ABS Reference Year 2025.
Justification
Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary. Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection. Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information.
The National Science Foundation Act of 1950 as amended authorizes and directs the National Science Foundation “...to provide a central clearinghouse for the collection, interpretation, and analysis of data on scientific and engineering resources and to provide a source of information for policy formulation by other agencies of the Federal government” and the authority was renewed by Section 505 of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010. NCSES could not fulfill this mandate without R&D data from the ABS — the primary federal source of information on R&D in the business sector, as well as for nonprofit organizations.
Further, U.S. R&D expenditures statistics from the ABS are required by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) for incorporating R&D as fixed investment in updates to the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPAs).
The survey is conducted under the authority of Title 13, United States Code, Sections 8(b), 131, and 182; Title 42, United States Code, Sections 1861-76 (National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended); and Section 505 within the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010. Sections 224 and 225 of Title 13, United States Code, require a response from sampled firms (Attachment C).
Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used. Except for a new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.
Statistics from the ABS will be used by government program officials, industry organization leaders, economic and social analysts, business entrepreneurs, and domestic and foreign researchers in business, government and academia. 
Business owner characteristic data from ABS are used by the National Women’s Business Council to assess the state of women’s business ownership for policymakers, researchers, and the public at large. Consultants and researchers use ABS data to analyze long-term economic and demographic shifts, and differences in ownership and performance among geographic areas. Individual business owners use ABS data to analyze their operations in comparison to similar firms, compute their market share, and assess their growth and future prospects.
U.S. R&D expenditures statistics from ABS are used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) for incorporating R&D as fixed investment in updates to the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPAs). Also, NCSES, BEA and the Census Bureau periodically seek to use ABS data to augment global R&D investment information that is obtained from BEA’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and U.S. Direct Investment Abroad (USDIA) surveys. Further, the Census Bureau links data collected by ABS with other statistical files. For example, historical company-level R&D data are linked to a file that contains information on the outputs and inputs of companies' manufacturing plants. Researchers can analyze the relationships between R&D funding and other economic variables by using micro-level data.

Individuals and organizations access the survey statistics via the Internet in annual InfoBriefs published by NCSES that announce the availability of statistics from each cycle of ABS and detailed statistical table reports that contain all the statistics NCSES produces from ABS. Information about the kinds of projects that rely on statistics from ABS is available from internal records of Census’ Center for Economic Studies. In addition, survey statistics are regularly cited in trade publications and many researchers use the survey statistics from these secondary sources without directly contacting NCSES or the Census Bureau. Additional information on the users of the ABS survey statistics and the types of information they request are described below.

Government Users
Government policy officials who are involved in assessing the role of the Federal government in promoting economic growth use R&D statistics in their decision-making processes since R&D results affect technological and economic progress. Members of Congress make use of R&D statistics in preparing tax legislation, contacting NCSES or the Census Bureau directly through their own staffs, through one of the House or Senate science committees, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the Congressional Research Service (CRS), or the Congressional Joint Economic Committee.

NCSES staff also work closely with the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), providing R&D statistics and indicators of emerging trends to assist the OSTP staff in their analyses of the status of science and technology in the United States. In addition, NCSES has frequent contact with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Statistics produced from ABS also have been requested by officials from a host of other Federal government and quasi-governmental agencies including the various federal reserve banks. Also, as states and local governments seek to attract high-tech industries to their areas, NCSES and the Census Bureau are frequently asked to provide R&D funding and employment figures to state governments and state organizations. Further, information and statistics from ABS also are supplied to internal NCSES organizations. For example, survey statistics are used in the "Research and Development: U.S. Trends and International Comparisons" and "Invention, Knowledge Transfer and Innovation " thematic reports of the Congressionally mandated Science and Engineering Indicators series, a biennial report in which the National Science Board continues to describe quantitatively the condition of U.S. science and research. Survey results are also included in NCSES’ annual National Patterns of R&D Resources tabulations and reports.

International Users
The international community uses R&D spending information as part of its comparisons of the economic performance among nations. U.S. R&D statistics are compiled in a format that can be compared with those of other countries. These statistics are transmitted to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) that relies on ABS as its primary source for comparative business R&D statistics for the United States. Also, R&D statistics are used by multi-national committees and subcommittees studying and maintaining the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and North American Product Classification System (NAPCS).

Other international and foreign entities that have requested statistics on U.S. business R&D expenditures include the Canadian Ministry of Treasury and Economics, Credit Suisse Securities, Deloitte-Touche Tohmatsu (Japan), European Commission’s Joint Research Center, French Embassy, Embassy of Finland, Embassy of Germany, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Industry Canada, Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (Madrid), London School of Economics, National Technology Agency of Finland, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, Puerto Rico Planning Board, Office of the Representative of the Republic of Taiwan, Statistics Canada, and Statistics Quebec. Domestic research organizations focusing on international issues also have requested survey statistics.

Business Users
Although the primary purpose of the survey is to provide accurate R&D statistics for well-informed public policy decisions, business users also benefit from the survey figures. There is a special obligation to keep the survey relevant to industry users particularly because business personnel spend time answering the annual questionnaire. Firms and trade associations in all industries, whether large or small in terms of R&D performance, are interested in making intra-industry comparisons, as well as comparing other industries' performance with their own. Each year NCSES and the Census Bureau receive many requests for R&D information from business users of the statistics.

In addition to industry researchers who utilize the R&D statistics directly from the NCSES website and publications, there are many who have used ABS statistics and information in their own trade reports. Trade associations that have contacted NCSES include the Aerospace Industries Association, American Chemical Council, American Power Association, American Society for Engineering Education, Center for Automotive Research, Manufacturers’ Alliance, Natural Gas Supply Association, Pharmaceutical Research & Manufacturers of America, and the Small Business High Tech Institute. Consultants to trade associations and industry also contact NCSES, such as the following: Booz-Allen Hamilton; Boston Consulting Group; McKinsey and Company; Northstar Economics, Inc.; PricewaterhouseCoopers; SRI International; Stroock and Stroock and Lavan LLP; and the William Burn Company.

R&D statistics also have been used by research organizations devoted to the study of industry, R&D, science and technology and related topics. These organizations include the Boston Analytics, Competitiveness Policy Council; Council on Competitiveness; Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, National Academy of Sciences’ Academy of Engineering, Committee on National Statistics, National Research Council, and Board on Science, Technology, & Economic Policy; National Economic Research Association; The Urban Institute, and World Wildlife Federation. The statistics also have been used for R&D spending projections published by the Battelle Memorial Institute.

Other Users
Research undertaken at colleges and universities on innovation and economic growth has relied heavily on the detailed R&D time series from NCSES’ business R&D surveys. Research projects that have used R&D statistics obtained from the surveys have been conducted at a host of domestic and international colleges and universities. In addition, inquiries are regularly received from the media. 

Although the consumers of the R&D statistics from ABS are diverse, there is one common element underlying all the uses of the survey statistics — an attempt to gain a better understanding of some aspect of the nation's scientific and technological resources. The detailed R&D statistics provided by ABS are the most complete set of elements for assessing the impact of R&D on business development and the nation's economy. 
Information quality is an integral part of the pre-dissemination review of the information disseminated by the Census Bureau (fully described in the Census Bureau's Information Quality Guidelines). Information quality is also integral to the information collections conducted by the Census Bureau and is incorporated into the clearance process required by the Paperwork Reduction Act.
Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g. permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection. Also, describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.

ABS utilizes an online survey instrument (Attachment D). Respondents are mailed and emailed letters directing them to create a Census account and access the survey through their account. 

Through their Census account, respondents will have access to frequently asked questions and general information about the survey. They will also have direct access to the online survey, and will have the ability to request time extensions, delegate access to the survey to others within their organization, check their filing status or send secure email messages to the Census Bureau. 

Once a respondent has completed the online survey, a PDF copy of the responses may be printed or saved for business records.

The electronic reporting instrument has built-in edits that give respondents the opportunity to verify their responses. The use of built-in edits ensures consistency among data received from respondents. The electronic reporting instrument saves respondents’ progress and allows them to return later to complete the survey. The instrument also generates an error page prior to submission that indicates if a respondent should revisit a page to make a correction. 

Implementing an electronic collection instrument reduces the cost of mailing this annual survey. Additionally, electronic responses yield higher quality response data by utilizing edits built into the electronic reporting system to decrease manual edits when the data are received and processed, ultimately leading to cost savings and increased data quality.
Describe efforts to identify duplication. Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purposes described in Question 2.

The Census Bureau and NCSES jointly assess results of discussions with respondents who also participate in other surveys to avoid possible duplication of R&D data collection. In addition, the Census Bureau and NCSES maintain close liaison and share information with other Government agencies that have an interest in R&D statistics to ensure that duplication of data collection does not occur.

ABS is the only annual survey measuring national business R&D spending. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) collects only partial data on R&D expenditures and R&D scientists and engineers employed by U.S. companies on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and these data are not aggregated to a national total. In addition, privately held companies, regulated utilities, transportation companies, and companies with only small amounts of R&D spending do not report R&D expenditures to the SEC.

Occasionally, various interested groups, such as the Aerospace Industries Association, Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, and the Industrial Research Institute conduct R&D canvasses of their own members. These studies cannot, however, be used as the basis for national R&D totals, nor do they have the variety of R&D detail necessary for policy decisions. There is, therefore, no other source for the R&D data collected by ABS.
If the collection of information impacts small businesses or other small entities, describe any methods used to minimize burden.

The ABS uses the following methods to minimize the burden: 
The survey has been streamlined to meet minimum data requirements while producing necessary and key business data. Potential impacts to quality of the data, particularly at lower geographic and smaller industries can be expected. Some data previously released may no longer be available. Overall, the benefit of reduced burden on respondents outweighs the potential cost.
This survey is currently researching a broader use of administrative records, direct data from company feeds, and modeling techniques to create results for smaller geographic levels and more detailed industries to further reduce respondent burden. 
Predetermining the likelihood that a business is within certain demographic groups, for example, women-owned, for sampling: Several sources of information are used to stratify the universe. Administrative data from the Social Security Administration (SSA), American Community Survey, and Decennial Census are used to identify individual proprietorships that are potentially owned by women or other demographic groups; then this information is used to stratify the universe.
Predetermining owner characteristics to reduce burden on some respondents: Businesses that were sampled for previous cycles will not be asked questions in Section B: Owner Characteristics for 2025.
R&D is a rare activity in businesses. Companies with R&D have a highly skewed distribution with the vast majority of ABS R&D estimates coming from a relatively small number of companies. Companies reporting $0 R&D are do not receive the majority of the  R&D questions (which represents a large portion of ABS). Companies reporting less than $1 Million R&D only receive roughly half of the R&D questions. 
Nonprofit organizations receive an abridged version of ABS: Entities identified as nonprofit organizations will only report their research activities.
Nonprofit organizations excluded if in select industries: The nonprofit sample selection will exclude organizations identified as operating in the Public Administration or Education industries.  Also excluded are industries that are not expected to have research activities such as Religious Organizations.
Describe the consequence to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

The ABS improves the measurement of business dynamics in the United States and expands the availability of federal economic statistics in the areas of owner demographics, entrepreneurship, innovation, R&D and technology. A less frequent collection would impact government agencies’ access to information used to monitor investments in R&D for the GDP, as well as business growth and development at state and substate levels. Further, less frequent collections would create a risk in not being able to monitor and analyze the impact of business cycle trends on business ownership. Additionally, as we work to model more data, a less frequent collection may impact the modeling itself as models are built on current data. 
Explain any special circumstances that would cause an information collection to be conducted in a manner:
requiring respondents to report information to the agency more often than quarterly;
requiring respondents to prepare a written response to a collection of information in fewer than 30 days after receipt of it;
requiring respondents to submit more than an original and two copies of any document;
requiring respondents to retain records, other than health, medical, government contract, grant-in- aid, or tax records for more than three years;
in connection with a statistical survey, that is not designed to produce valid and reliable results that can be generalized to the universe of study;
requiring the use of a statistical data classification that has not been reviewed and approved by OMB;
that includes a pledge of confidentiality that is not supported by authority established in statute or regulation, that is not supported by disclosure and data security policies that are consistent with the pledge, or which unnecessarily impedes sharing of data with other agencies for compatible confidential use; or
requiring respondents to submit proprietary trade secret, or other confidential information unless the agency can demonstrate that it has instituted procedures to protect the information's confidentiality to the extent permitted by law.

The ABS collects data on business owner race and ethnicity. In light of OMB’s March 27, 2026 announcement of a one-year extension to submit an Action Plan for compliance with the updates to Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, Standards for Maintaining, Collecting, and Presenting Federal Data on Race and Ethnicity, the Census Bureau and National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics will use the 1997 standards in the Annual Business Survey, and will use the delayed deadline to continue to develop implementation plans for the 2024 standards. 

The mailout of the ABS will occur in late May 2026 and responses will be due approximately 30 days from initial mailing. Depending on the mail delivery timeline, some respondents may receive the initial mailing and have slightly fewer than 30 days before the due date. 
If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publications in the Federal Register of the agency's notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8 (d), soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB. Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to these comments. Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.
Consultation with representatives of those from whom information is to be obtained or those who must compile records should occur at least once every 3 years - even if the collection of information activity is the same as in prior periods. There may be circumstances that may preclude consultation in a specific situation. These circumstances should be explained.

The NCSES and Census have had extensive consultation outside of the agency in preparation for the various sections/modules included on the ABS and its predecessor surveys, including meetings with researchers, academia, data users, expert panels, cognitive interviews and debriefings.

NCSES and the Census Bureau consulted the following officials and agencies regarding content for the ABS.


       Steve Landefeld, Director (retired) 
Bureau of Economic Analysis
4600 Silver Hill Rd
Hillcrest Heights, MD 20746

Stephen Ezell, Vice President
Global Innovation Policy
Information Technology and Innovation Foundation
700 K St NW
Washington, DC 20001

Nico Thomas, Performance Analyst
National Institute of Standards and Technology
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899

Steve Campbell, Economist 
Manufacturing Research and Program Evaluation
National Institute of Standards and Technology
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899

Kenneth Poole, Executive Director
Council for Community and Economic Research
1700 N. Moore Street
Suite 2225
Arlington, VA 22209

Brian Headd, Economist
Small Business Administration
Office of Advocacy 
409 3rd St, SWWashington, DC 20416 

Patrick Delehanty, Director of Economic Research
Small Business Administration
Office of Advocacy 
409 3rd St, SWWashington, DC 20416 

Ester Morales, Executive Director
National Women’s Business Council
409 Third Street, SW, 5th Floor
Washington, DC 20416

Tene Dolphin, Executive Director
National Women’s Business Council
 409 Third Street, SW, 5th Floor
Washington, DC 20416

Brent Hedlund Meyer, Assistant Vice President and Economist
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
1000 Peachtree Street N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309

Jonathan Willis, Vice President and Senior Economist
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
1000 Peachtree Street N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309

Mark Edward Schweitzer, Senior Vice President
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
1455 E 6th St
Cleveland, OH 44114

Veronika Penciakova, Research Economist and Assistant Adviser
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
1000 Peachtree Street N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309

Christopher McLaren, Director of Research and Evaluation 
Department of Labor
Office of Disability Employment Policy
200 Constitution Ave, NW
Washington, DC 20210

The Census Bureau published a 60-day notice in the Federal Register on September 2, 2025, pp. 42382-42384, announcing its plan to conduct the Annual Business Survey in 2026, 2027, and 2028. The FRN resulted in two comments.

The first comment (Attachment E1) addresses how the order of the modules may affect how respondents interpret and answer the questions, particularly for innovation/R&D surveys.  Census Bureau staff reviewed the research paper provided.  The ABS plans to ask the innovation module before the R&D module which aligns with the findings outlined in the research paper.

The second comment (Attachment E2) was a letter from BEA that strongly supported the merged data collection. We thank the BEA for its continued support of this program.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

The Census Bureau will not pay or offer gifts to respondents of the ABS.
Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy. If the collection requires a systems of records notice (SORN) or privacy impact assessment (PIA), those should be cited and described here.

The information collected in this survey is confidential under Title 13, United States Code, Section 9. Title 13, United States Code, Sections 224 and 225 make reporting mandatory.

Respondents are informed in the initial letter that responses are confidential, and their responses are mandatory. This information is also available from the electronic reporting instrument as shown in Attachment D. 
Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior or attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private. This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent.

The ABS asks questions on the sex, ethnicity, race, and veteran status of the owners. The business owner characteristics are important to understanding conditions of business success and failure, showing changes in business performance, and other indicators of the current business environment. Data tabulations may produce estimates on non-minority/minority-owned businesses, veteran/nonveteran- owned businesses, and male/female-owned businesses, or by other owner characteristics. 

The Census Bureau collaborated with the Office of Disability Employment Policy, Department of Labor to include a question on owner disability. Data on owner disability is needed to understand the prevalence of disability among business owners across industries, firm size, and geographies. These data are important to examining key motivations for people with disabilities to become business owners. Additionally, this information will allow users to identify industries where people with disabilities may be more likely to become leaders in their organizations. Results of this information can be used to target policy development, technical assistance, and stakeholder engagement towards specific industries or organizations.

By law (Title 13 of the United States Code), all responses to the survey, including sensitive questions, are completely confidential and may be seen only by persons sworn to uphold the confidentiality of Census Bureau information. The data are used only for statistical purposes and the responses are summarized so that the confidentiality of individual respondents and their business activities is fully protected.
Provide estimates of the hour burden of the collection of information.
Indicate the number of respondents, frequency of response, annual hour burden, and an explanation of how the burden was estimated. Unless directed to do so, agencies should not conduct special surveys to obtain information on which to base hour burden estimates. Consultation with a sample (fewer than 10) of potential respondents is desirable. If the hour burden on respondents is expected to vary widely because of differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of estimated hour burden, and explain the reasons for the variance. Generally, estimates should not include burden hours for customary and usual business practices.
If this request for approval covers more than one form, provide separate hour burden estimates for each form and aggregate the hour burdens.
Provide estimates of annualized cost to respondents for the hour burdens for collections of information, identifying and using appropriate wage rate categories. The cost of contracting out or paying outside parties for information collection activities should      not be included here. Instead, this cost should be included under ‘Annual Cost to Federal Government’ (Item #14).

The ABS will be mailed to approximately 230,000 respondents. For businesses, the sample will yield summary-level estimates for businesses by owner characteristics at the NAICS sector level, and by U.S., state, metropolitan statistical area (MSA), county, and congressional district. Response times will vary for selected respondents. The estimated time to complete for employer for-profit businesses increases from 29 minutes to 45 minutes due to expanded innovation content. This expanded innovation content was previously approved in ABS as rotating content. For those businesses that would have previously received the separate BERD survey (and now will be asked those questions on the ABS), the estimated time to complete is the BERD burden (2 Hours and 37 Minutes) plus 45 minutes. The estimated time to complete for nonprofit organizations remains unchanged at 38 minutes.

 | Number | Burden Estimate per Response | Total Burden Hours
Employer Businesses without BERD content | 174,500 | 45 Minutes | 130,875
Employer Businesses with BERD content | 47,500 | 3 Hours and 22 Minutes | 159,916
Nonprofit Organizations | 8,000 | 38 Minutes | 5,067
Total | 230,000 | ----- | 295 , 858

According to the May 2024 Occupational Employment Statistics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) website, the mean hourly wage for accountants (13-2011 Accountants & Auditors) was $44.96. The total annual cost to respondents for their time to respond for fiscal year 2025 is estimated to be $13,301,776.  
Provide an estimate for the total annual cost burden to respondents or record keepers resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden already reflected on the burden worksheet).

We do not expect respondents to incur any costs other than that of their time to respond. The information requested is of the type and scope normally known by respondents or carried in company records and no special hardware or accounting software or system is necessary to provide answers to this information collection. Therefore, respondents are not expected to incur any capital and start-up costs or system maintenance costs in responding. Further, purchasing of outside accounting or information collection services, if performed by the respondent, is part of usual and customary business practices and not specifically required for this information collection.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal government. Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any other expense that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

We expect the total cost to the Federal Government to be approximately $10 million per survey year. This cost is expected to be relatively constant for 2026-2028. The Census Bureau pays 20% of costs and NCSES pays 80%. The cost includes, but is not limited to, costs associated with data collection, processing, data review, data tabulation, disclosure avoidance, overhead, printing, postage, and support staff.
Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in ROCIS.

The estimated time to complete for employer for-profit businesses increases from 29 minutes to 45 minutes due to expanded innovation content. 

124,450 total burden hours from the BERD survey (2 Hours and 37 Minutes * 47,500 respondents) has been added since that same content will now be collected as part of ABS. The Census Bureau will no longer field the BERD survey separately.
For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication. Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used. Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

Milestone | RY25  ABS Planned Completion Date
Content Draft | November 2025
Cognitive Testing | January 2026
Content Final | February  202 6
Approval Request Submitted to OMB | February 2026
Instrument Usability Testing Complete | March 2026
Online Reporting Instrument Testing Complete | April 2026
Sample Selection | April 2026
Initial Mail  Operations | Late May   2026
Closeout  Mail Operations | December 202 6
Micro Data Review Complete | January  202 7
Macro Data Review Complete | March  202 7
Preliminary Data Publication | March 2027
Dissemination Processing | September  202 7
Final Data Publication | October 2027

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

The agency plans to display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection on all instruments.
Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions."

The agency certifies compliance with 5 CFR 1320.9 and the related provisions of 5 CFR 1320.8(b)(3)