PART word/document.xml
INFORMATION COLLECTION SUPPORTING STATEMENT

DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP)
OMB Control Number 1652-0044
EXP. January 31, 2026

Explain the circumstances that make the collection of information necessary.  Identify any legal or administrative requirements that necessitate the collection.  Attach a copy of the appropriate section of each statute and regulation mandating or authorizing the collection of information (annotate the CFR parts/sections affected).

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is required to provide a—

timely and fair process for individuals who believe they have been delayed or prohibited from boarding a commercial aircraft because they were wrongly identified as a threat under the regimes utilized by the Transportation Security Administration, United States Customs and Border Protection, or any other office or component of the Department of Homeland Security.

49 U.S.C. § 44926(a).  Congress further directed the Secretary to establish an “Office of Appeals and Redress” to implement, coordinate, and execute the redress process.  Id. at § 44926(b).  In February 2007, the DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) was officially launched as the central processing point for redress inquiries.  On December 10, 2007, the Secretary designated the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) as the Executive Agent responsible with managing DHS TRIP and the statutorily-required “Office of Appeals and Redress.”  In addition, TSA is charged with establishing “a procedure to enable airline passengers, who are delayed or prohibited from boarding a flight because the advanced passenger prescreening system determined that they might pose a security threat, to appeal such determination and correct information contained in the system.”  49 U.S.C. § 44903(j)(2)(C).

There are multiple DHS components and interagency partners with responsibilities related to traveler redress.  Other DHS components include, but are not limited to, the DHS Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, DHS Privacy Office, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Office of Biometric Identity Management in the National Protection and Programs Directorate (formerly, U.S. VISIT).  DHS TRIP external program partners include the Federal Bureau of Investigation Terrorist Screening Center along with Department of State (DOS) Bureau of Consular Affairs.  This group of DHS components and other Federal agencies is collectively referred to as the “program partners” for purposes of this supporting statement.

DHS TRIP was developed by DHS, in cooperation with the DOS and the Department of Justice, to provide a one-step portal for individuals to request redress.  Persons may voluntarily seek redress if they believe that they have been (1) denied or delayed boarding; (2) denied or delayed entry into or departure from the United States at a port of entry; (3) identified for additional (secondary) screening at our Nation’s transportation hubs, including airports, seaports, train stations, and land borders; or (4) otherwise been subjected to violations of their civil rights or privacy rights while boarding, entering, or being screened in connection with travel.

TSA's Transportation Security Redress Branch (TSRB) is the designated office responsible for the day-to-day operations of DHS TRIP.  As the lead for these operations, TSRB provides traveler-redress intake and processing support, while working with relevant DHS components, DOS, and law enforcement and intelligence agencies to review the submissions and reach a determination about traveler status.

This collection of information includes: (1) the Traveler Inquiry Form (TIF) that includes the individual’s identifying and travel experience information and (2) two optional, anonymous customer satisfaction surveys to allow the public to provide DHS feedback on its experience using DHS TRIP.

Traveler Inquiry Form

TIF users provide their full name, date of birth, and other data elements to include additional travel experience scenario options, involving Electronic Visa Update System and Global Entry; and two additional identity documentation options, Electronic System for Travel Authorization application and the Student Exchange Visitor Information System ID number.  TSA has made non-substantial changes to the application, correcting a typo and changing the phrase “Name of Entry into the U.S.” to “Name at Entry into the U.S.”

Customer Satisfaction Surveys

One survey requests feedback on the public’s experience using the DHS TRIP website and will be administered at the time of use and the other questionnaire requests feedback on the public’s experience using DHS TRIP as a whole and will be administered 90 days after the respondent’s case is closed.  In response to the Government Accountability Office’s recently issued recommendations, TSA revised the two surveys, adding additional questions and providing open text for respondents to provide suggestions and feedback on the application and the redress processes.


Indicate how, by whom, and for what purpose the information is to be used.  Except for new collection, indicate the actual use the agency has made of the information received from the current collection.

In operating the DHS TRIP program, the TSRB and its program partners use the information obtained in the TIF to process redress requests concerning traveler inquiries regarding difficulties they experienced during their travel screening at transportation hubs.  DHS is also asking applicants for redress to complete two voluntary customer satisfaction surveys following the completion of the TIF on the website or after they have received a response letter signaling the end of the redress process.  The survey questions ask applicants to score various aspects of the redress process and the website on different measuring scales.  DHS will use the information obtained in the customer satisfaction surveys to analyze customer satisfaction when using the redress application process and to identify ways to improve the process from the customer’s perspective.

Describe whether, and to what extent, the collection of information involves the use of automated, electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology, e.g., permitting electronic submission of responses, and the basis for the decision for adopting this means of collection.  Also, describe any consideration of using information technology to reduce burden.  [Effective 03/22/01, your response must SPECIFICALLY reference the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA), which addresses electronic filing and recordkeeping, and what you are doing to adhere to it.  You must explain how you will provide a fully electronic reporting option by October 2003, or an explanation of why this is not practicable.]

DHS has developed an online system to support DHS TRIP.  In compliance with the Government Paperwork Elimination Act, individuals can download the TIF on the DHS TRIP website at https://www.dhs.gov/dhs-trip.  Under this program, individuals can complete the TIF online through a “smart” form that collects the personal information necessary to process and address their request.  Applicants, however, are required to submit government-issued travel documents via email or mail.  Individuals who are U.S. citizens can submit a legible copy of an unexpired U.S. passport.  If the individual does not have a U.S. passport, he/she can provide at least one legible copy of an unexpired, government-issued, photograph-bearing identification document.  For minors (individuals under the age of 18), a copy of either a certified birth certificate or a passport is the only identification document required.  Persons who do not possess a U.S. passport or who are aliens may submit a copy of the following: passport; passport card; driver’s license; government identification card (Federal/state/local/tribal number); birth certificate (only for individuals under the age of 18); military identification card; certificate of citizenship; naturalization certificate; immigrant/non-immigrant visa; alien registration card; petition or claim receipt; I-94 admission form; FAST Card; SENTRI Card; NEXUS Card; or Border Crossing Card.

If desired, an individual may print the TIF and submit the completed form, along with at least one unexpired, government-issued, photograph-bearing identification document via mail or email.  All new redress requestors are directed to the DHS TRIP website, which is intended to be the primary point of contact with individuals who feel they have been: (1) denied or delayed boarding, (2) denied or delayed entry into or departure from the U.S. at a port of entry, (3) identified for additional screening at our Nation’s transportation hubs, including airports, seaports, and land borders, and (4) otherwise subjected to violations of their civil rights or privacy rights while boarding, entering, or being screened in connection with travel.  Based on current trends, DHS expects that approximately 80 percent of travelers seeking redress will submit their initial requests electronically, with 70 percent of these redress seekers submitting identifying documents by email, and 1 percent submitting the documents by regular mail (a change from 20 percent).  For individuals with limited access to computers or the internet, the TIF form is available by contacting the TSA Contact Center, and the TSRB will send the form by mail.

The customer satisfaction survey is accessed and completed through the DHS TRIP website following completion of the TIF.  The second survey is sent and responses received by email or mail.

Usability Testing Requirement:

Pursuant to a 2023 DHS requirement, all Information Collection Requests must undergo usability testing (UX) prior to submission to OMB.  See Paperwork Reduction Act Burden Reduction Initiative Memorandum dated, September 29, 2023.  TSA completed UX on the DHS TRIP online application to determine the accuracy of the time burden estimate.  The UX included five participants who were not familiar with the online application.

TSA found that the average time burden to complete the online application was 30 minutes.  As such, TSA will change the current estimated burden of 60 to 30 minutes.

The participants found a typo in the application and recommended the change of the phrase “Name of Entry into the U.S.” to “Name at Entry into the U.S.”  TSA made this de minimis change to the collection.

Describe efforts to identify duplication.  Show specifically why any similar information already available cannot be used or modified for use for the purpose(s) described in Item 2 above.

This program was created to provide a single portal for travelers to seek redress.  As a result, there is no similar information available within DHS that can be used or modified for this program.  This information is collected on a one-time basis from individuals requesting redress for a situation or event in the past in which he or she experienced a screening-related difficulty during travel.  Existing information within the possession of DHS does not address these questions.

If the collection of information has a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses or other small entities (Item 5 of the Paperwork Reduction Act submission form), describe the methods used to minimize the burden.

This collection does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses.

Describe the consequences to Federal program or policy activities if the collection is not conducted or is conducted less frequently, as well as any technical or legal obstacles to reducing burden.

TSA could not meet its legal obligation pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 44926(a) to provide a timely and fair process for individuals who believe they have been delayed or prohibited from boarding a commercial aircraft.  If DHS did not conduct the TIF information collection, it would not be able to provide an accelerated and effective redress process for individuals who believe they have been incorrectly delayed or denied boarding as a result of the passenger screening process.  If DHS conducted the collection less frequently, it would not be fulfilling its statutory mandate to provide timely redress to the public.  If DHS does not administer the surveys, it will not have a direct feedback loop, which will allow TSA to make specific, customer-driven process improvements.  Furthermore, if customers are not surveyed to determine the ease of the redress application process and whether the redress process met their expectations, DHS would be unable to ascertain whether modifications to DHS TRIP support the DHS objective of enhancing quality customer service.  By administering customer satisfaction surveys, DHS will be better prepared to make meaningful and substantive modifications to DHS TRIP to effectuate this objective, consistent with GAO recommendations referenced above.  

Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the general information collection guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.5(d)(2).

This collection is conducted in a manner consistent with the general information collection guidelines.

Describe the efforts to consult persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and recordkeeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported.  If applicable, provide a copy and identify the date and page number of publication in the Federal Register of the agency’s notice, required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d) soliciting comments on the information collection prior to submission to OMB.  Summarize public comments received in response to that notice and describe actions taken by the agency in response to those comments.  Specifically address comments received on cost and hour burden.

To implement DHS TRIP, an advisory board was established with representation from the program partners.  Additionally, a working group was established with representatives from the program partners to make improvements to the underlying system and identify necessary information that needs to be collected to conduct an effective redress program.  Among other things, the working group considered Recommendation #24 from the DHS Office of the Inspector General’s Report on Effectiveness of the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program, OIG-09-103 (September 11, 2009), which recommended that DHS collect additional data to document, report, and take steps to improve redress-seekers’ impressions of the DHS TRIP website, different aspects of the redress experience, and overall satisfaction with DHS TRIP.

As the Executive Agent for DHS TRIP, TSA published a 60-day notice in the Federal Register on July 24, 2025, 90 FR 34875, and a 30-day notice on November 26, 2025, 90 FR 54361 as required by 5 CFR 1320.8(d).  TSA received no comments.

Explain any decision to provide any payment or gift to respondents, other than remuneration of contractors or grantees.

No payment or gift will be provided to respondents.

Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy.

No specific assurances of confidentiality will be provided to individuals.  Information provided by individuals will be protected from disclosure to the extent appropriate under applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act of 1974, and, as applicable, 49 U.S.C. 114(r), as implemented by 49 CFR part 1520, which limits the disclosure of Sensitive Security Information.  Data is collected and transmitted in accordance with the Privacy Act.  Individuals are advised of these statutory protections at the time of the submission of the application for redress.  TSA published a Privacy Act system of records notice in the Federal Register, DHS/ALL-005 Department of Homeland Security Redress and Response Records System.  See 72 FR 2294 (January 18, 2007).  Also, a Privacy Impact Assessment, DHS/ALL/PIA-002- DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (TRIP), was published on January 18, 2007 on www.dhs.gov.

Provide additional justification for any questions of sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private.

This collection does not include any questions of a sensitive nature.

Provide estimates of hour burden of the collection of information.

Based on current contact volumes, DHS will receive approximately 26,000 redress requests per year.  The annual response population was derived from data compiled from across all program partners.

Travelers seeking redress must complete and submit the TIF (through e-mail, mail, or web portal) to DHS TRIP along with a copy of their U.S. passport or at least one, unexpired, government-issued, and photograph-bearing identification document.  DHS estimates completing the form, including gathering and submitting the required information, will take approximately one half hour (30 minutes).  DHS calculates 13,000 hours as the total estimated annual hour burden for redress applicants.  Respondents are any member of the travelling public; as such, DHS uses the fully-loaded hourly wage rate for all workers, $47.20.  DHS estimates an annual average hour cost burden of $613,600 (or $1,840,800 over the course of the 3-year approval window for this collection).  Table 1 summarizes this calculation.

Table 1: Hour Cost Burden for Submitting a Redress Application
Number of Annual Applications for Redress | Hour Burden per Application | Total Annual Hour Burden | Total Annual Hour Burden Cost
A | B | C = A x B | D = C x  $ 47.20
26,000 | .5 | 13,000 | $613,600

DHS estimates for passengers seeking redress that (1) approximately 10 percent (2,600 passengers) will complete an initial website review survey and (2) approximately 10 percent (2,600 passengers) will complete an overall satisfaction survey sent 90 days after case closure.

DHS estimates that survey completion will take approximately 5 minutes for the initial survey and 2 minutes for the overall survey.  Thus, the total estimated annual hour burden for passengers responding to surveys is 303 total hours, or 217 hours (2,600 x 0.0833) for the initial survey and 87 hours (2,600 x 0.0333) overall survey.  DHS utilizes the same wage rate as above ($47.20) to calculate the annual hour cost burden for computing the annual hour burden cost, since only applicants to DHS TRIP would complete the surveys.  DHS estimates an annual hour burden cost of $14,317 ($42,952 for the 3-year period).  Table 2 displays the total estimated hour burden cost for passengers completing surveys.

Table 2: Annual Hour Burden Cost for  T hose Opting to  C omplete Surveys
Survey Type | Percent of Respondents Opting to complete the Survey | Number of Surveys completed | Hour Burden per Survey | Total Annual Hour Burden | Total Annual Hour Burden Cost
 | A | B =  26 ,000 x A | C | D = B x C | E = D x  $47.20
Initial Survey | 10% | 2,600 | 0.0833 | 217 | $10,227
Overall Survey | 10% | 2,600 | 0.0333 | 87 | $4,091
Total |   | 5,200 |   | 303 | $14,317


DHS estimates a total annual hour burden and annual hour burden cost by summing the annual hour burden and annual hour burden costs associated with submitting a DHS TRIP application (13,000 hours and $613,600) and the annual hour burden and hour burden costs associated with filling out the surveys (303 hours and $14,317), for a total annual hour burden of 13,303 hours and an annual hour burden cost of $627,917 (39,910 hours and $1,883,752 over the 3-year period).

Provide an estimate of the total annual cost burden to respondents or recordkeepers resulting from the collection of information. (Do not include the cost of any hour burden shown in Items 12 and 14).

DHS estimates the total annual cost burden for travelers applying to DHS TRIP to be approximately $1,261.  The costs to travelers involve costs associated with mailing the TIF and identity documentation.  DHS estimates the cost to mail the documentation is $4.85 via certified mail.  Based on the current volume of forms received by DHS TRIP, TSA estimates that 1 percent of applications to DHS TRIP will continue to be sent via standard mail.  The estimated annual burden for mailing the application is $1,261. Table 3 summarizes these estimates.

Table 3: Postal Costs for sending in Form via Certified Mail
Form Type | Percent of Applicants who submit forms via Certified Mail | Number of Forms Submitted by Mail | Cost for Sending Certified Mail | Annual Certified Mail Costs
 | A | B =  26,000  x A | C | D = B x C
Redress Application | 1% | 260 | $4.85 | $1,261
 |  |  |  | 

There are no capital and start-up costs associated with this collection.

Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government.  Also, provide a description of the method used to estimate cost, and account for other expenses that would not have been incurred without this collection of information.

DHS TRIP does not anticipate costs to the Federal Government for implementing the two surveys beyond expected and usual staff hours.  The cost for the collection of data used in processing redress requests involves cost associated with labor.  TSA uses one full time E-band employee, one full time F-band employee, one full time G-band employee, two full time H-band employees, three full time I-band employee, one full time J-band employee, and one full time K-band employee for this collection (for a total of 10 FTEs).  TSA employee hour burden is calculated by multiplying the 2,087 hours in a Federal employee’s work year and the 10 FTE for an annual TSA employee hour burden of 20,870.  Using a weighted average hourly wage rate of $80.34, TSA estimates the annual hour burden cost to the Federal Government to be $1,676,664 ($5,029,993 million over 3 years).  Table 4 summarizes these estimates.

Table 4: TSA Hour Burden Costs
Labor Category | Hour Burden | Wage Rate | Annual Hour Burden Cost
 | A | B | C = A x B
TSA Employees | 20,870 | $80.34 | $1,676, 664
 |  |  | 
 |  |  | 

TSA may mail applications to respondents if needed.  TSA estimates that 5 percent of the 26,000 applicants submit information by mail, or 1,300 respondents.  To mail the applications, TSA estimates the cost is the same as the cost for applicants to mail in the documentation as discussed above, $4.85.  Thus, the estimated annual burden for TSA to mail the application is $6,305.  Table 5 summarizes this estimate.

Table 5 .  TSA Postal Costs
Percentage of Applicants to whom TSA mails the Application | Number of Applicants to whom TSA mails the Application | Cost to send Certified Mail | TSA Annual Postal Costs
5% | 1,300 | $4.85 | $6,305

TSA estimates the total cost to the Federal Government to be $1,682,969 ($1,676,664 + $6,305) annually or $5,048,908 over 3 years.

Explain the reasons for any program changes or adjustments reported in Items 13 or 14 of the OMB Form 83-I.

As a result of the UX, TSA adjusted the average time burden to complete the online application from 60 to 30 minutes and made minor edits to the application.  In addition, TSA revised the two surveys, resulting in an additional burden change.  For the initial survey, the burden changed from 10 minutes to 5 minutes.  For the second survey, the burden changed from 5 minutes to 2 minutes.  Lastly, TSA adjusted the percentage of applicants who send the applications to DHS TRIP via standard mail from 20 percent to 1 percent, moving the cost burden from $14,490 to $1,261.

For collections of information whose results will be published, outline plans for tabulation and publication.  Address any complex analytical techniques that will be used.  Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.

The results of the proposed collection will not be published.

If seeking approval to not display the expiration date for OMB approval of the information collection, explain the reasons that display would be inappropriate.

DHS will display the OMB number and expiration date.

Explain each exception to the certification statement identified in Item 19, “Certification for Paperwork Reduction Act Submissions,” of OMB Form 83-I.

No exceptions are claimed.
PART word/footnotes.xml



 TSA added this survey in 2009 in response to the DHS Office of the Inspector General, Report on Effectiveness of the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program, OIG-09-103 (September 11, 2009).  Recommendation #24 of the report called upon DHS TRIP to “collect and report on redress-seeker impressions of the TRIP website, different aspects of the redress experience, and their overall satisfaction with the program, with the aim of using this information to identify areas for improvement.”
 GAO-25-106333SU Terrorist Watchlist: Actions Needed to Improve Nomination and Redress for U.S. Persons. (March 2025).  See Recommendations 23 and 24. The report is sensitive and restricted.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Employer Costs for Employee Compensation - December 2024.  Table 1.  Employer costs per hour worked for employee compensation and costs as a percentage of total compensation: civilian workers, All Workers.  Last modified March 14, 2025 (accessed April 7, 2025).  https://www.bls.gov/news.release/archives/ecec_03142025.htm.
 USPS, Certified Mail.  https://www.usps.com/ship/insurance-extra-services.htm.
 OPM changed the 2,080 work hours to 2,087 by amending 5 U.S.C. 5504(b), the latter is assumed to capture year-to-year fluctuations in work hours.  Source: Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-272, April 7, 1986).
 The TSA weighted average wage rate equals the sum of the percent of each pay band used multiplied by the corresponding fully loaded wage rate [$80.34 = 10% (1/10 FTE) x $43.46 (E-Band) + 10% (1/10 FTE) x $52.83 (F-Band) + 10% (1/10 FTE) x $63.60 (G-Band) + 20% (2/10 FTE) x $75.94 (H-Band) + 30% (3/10 FTE) x $88.39 (I-Band) + 10% (1/10 FTE) x $104.17 (J-Band) + 10% (1/10 FTE) x $122.27 (K-Band)].