EMC: Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts .
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental Topics Air Bed Bugs Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency Response Environmental Information by Location Health Land, Waste, and Cleanup Lead Mold Radon Research Science Topics Water Topics A-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & Regulations By Business Sector By Topic Compliance Enforcement Guidance Laws and Executive Orders Regulations
Report a Violation
Report a Violation Environmental Violations Fraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPA Our Mission and What We Do Headquarters Offices Regional Offices Labs and Research Centers Newsroom Planning, Budget, and Results Organization Chart EPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Air Emission Measurement Center (EMC)
Monitoring
EMC: Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems
Information and Guidelines
A continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) is the total equipment necessary for the determination of a gas or particulate matter concentration or emission rate using pollutant analyzer measurements and a conversion equation, graph, or computer program to produce results in units of the applicable emission limitation or standard.
CEMS are required under some of the EPA regulations for either continual compliance determinations or determination of exceedances of the standards. The individual subparts of the EPA rules specify the reference methods that are used to substantiate the accuracy and precision of the CEMS.
Performance Specifications are used for evaluating the acceptability of the CEMS at the time of or soon after installation and whenever specified in the regulations.
Quality assurance procedures in Appendix F to 40 CFR 60 are used to evaluate the effectiveness of quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA) procedures and the quality of data produced by any CEMS that is used for determining compliance with the emission standards on a continuous basis as specified in the applicable regulation.
A predictive emission monitoring system (PEMS) is the total equipment necessary for the determination of a gas concentration or emission rate using process or control device operating parameter measurements and a conversion equation, a graph, or computer program to produce results in units of the applicable emission limitation or standard. The EPA is studying the applicability of PEMS for NO x compliance determinations for various sources. A draft protocol for assessing the accuracy and precision of PEMS has been developed and is expected to be proposed sometime in the near future.
Example Specifications and Test Procedures for Predictive Emission Monitoring Systems (PDF) (9 pp, 43 K) Guidelines for CEMS for Municipal Waste Combustors (PDF) (45 pp, 219 K, September 1990) 40 CFR Part 60 Appendix B, Performance Specification 2: Definition Of Normal Load (PDF) (2 pp, 7 K, March 2, 1992) Ammonia CEMS Background Report for the Development Of Ammonia CEMS Performance Specifications (PDF) (94 pp, 141 K, June 1993)
Memo: Use of Acid Rain CEMS as NSPS CEMS (TXT) (txt)
September 1993 Determination of the Presence of Stratification of Gaseous Pollutant and Diluent Emissions for CEM or Reference Method Relative Accuracy Locations (PDF) (2 pp, 8 K, June 21, 1994) Evaluation Procedure for Multi-Hole Sample Probes (PDF) (5 pp, 51 K, March 14, 1995)
CEMS Guidelines for MWC (NESCAUM). Model. Program Version 2.0 (TXT) (txt)
Program purchase information. August 1995 Federal Register RFP Announcement: CEM Demonstration for Particulate Matter and Mercury (PDF) (10 pp, 18 K, February 1996)
Site-Specific Quality Assurance Test Plan PM CEMS Demonstration, Volume 1 (Zipped PDFs) (zip)
August 7, 1996
Particulate Matter CEMS Demonstration Test - Status Report 4 (Zipped PDFs) (zip)
February 12, 1997 Alternative Monitoring Protocol Predictive Emission Monitoring System To Determine NO x And CO Emissions From An Industrial Furnace (PDF) (12 pp, 55 K, 1997)
Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (pdf)
(361.08 KB)
Handbook for CEMS for Non-Criteria Pollutants (pdf)
(11.77 MB)
Evaluation of Particulate Matter Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems Final Report (pdf)
(4.4 MB)
Current Knowledge of Particulate Matter (PM) CEMS Report (pdf)
(3.7 MB)
CEMS Cost Model (XLS) (xls)
March 7, 2007
Evaluation and Comparison Of U.S. And EU Reference Methods for Measurement of Mercury, Heavy Metals, PM2.5 And PM10 Emissions From Fossil-Fired Power Plants, Final Report (pdf)
(7.28 MB, February 2007)
Report prepared for the US EPA, et al
Long-Term Field Evaluation of Mercury (Hg) Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems: Coal-Fired Power Plant Burning Eastern Bituminous Coal and Equipped With Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR), Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP), and Wet Scrubber (pdf)
(907.48 KB, November 29, 2006)
Field Activities From November 2004 to September 2005, Final Report
Air Emission Measurement Center (EMC)
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Test Methods expand or collapse the child menu Promulgated Methods Approved Alternatives Conditional Methods Other Methods
Monitoring expand or collapse the child menu Performance Specifications QA Procedures Continuous Emission Monitoring Metals and Hg Emissions Monitoring
Instructional Material expand or collapse the child menu Guideline Documents Information Documents
Technical Support expand or collapse the child menu Methods Support Directory
Recent Additions
Contact Us About Air Emission Measurements
Contact Us About Air Emission Measurements to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on February 23, 2026
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
EPA Administrator
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.